phd c: Adam , what is the mike that , Jeremy 's wearing ?  grad f: It 's the ear - plug mike . professor b: Oh ! postdoc a: Is that Does that mean you can't hear anything during the meeting ? grad d: It 's old - school . grad f: Huh ? What ? Huh ? professor b: Should we , close the door , maybe ? grad f: It it 's a fairly good mike , actually . professor b: Well , that 's a grad f: Ugh ! So I didn't send out agenda items because until five minutes ago we only had one agenda item and now we have two . So , just to repeat the thing bef that we said last week , it was there 's this suggestion of alternating weeks on more , automatic speech recognition related or not ? Was that sort of the division ? grad f: Right . professor b: So which week are we in ? grad f: Well We haven't really started , but I thought we more we more or less did Meeting Recorder stuff last week , so I thought we could do ,  professor b: I thought we had a thing about speech recognition last week too . grad f: But I figure also if they 're short agenda items , we could also do a little bit of each . grad f: So , as most of you should know , I did send out the consent form thingies and , so far no one has made any Ach ! any comments on them . So , w what follows ? At some point y you go around and get people to sign something ? grad f: No . professor b: And how long of an opportunity did you tell them ? grad f: July fifteenth . professor b: Given that it 's that long ,  Why was that date chosen ? You just felt you wanted to ? grad f: Jane told me July fifteenth . postdoc a: I ,  I thought grad f: You y you had professor b: I don't grad f: I had heard July fifteenth , so that 's what I put . professor b: No , the only th the only mention I recall about that was just that July fifteenth or so is when this meeting starts . postdoc a: It 's fine with me if it is , or we cou But I thought it might be good to remind people two weeks prior to that professor b: w postdoc a: in case ,  you know , " by the way this is your last " professor b: Right . professor b: We probably should have talked about it , cuz i because if we wanna be able to give it to people July fifteenth , if somebody 's gonna come back and say " OK , I don't want this and this and this used " , clearly we need some time to respond to that .  the people who are in the meeti this meeting was , these the meetings that in are in set one . grad f: I we don't My understanding of what we had agreed upon when we had spoken about this months ago was that , we don't actually need a reply . postdoc a: And he 's got it so that the default thing you see when you look at the page is " OK " . postdoc a: So that 's very clear all the way down the page , " OK " . postdoc a: Which means also we get feedback on if  , there 's something that they w that needs to be adjusted , because , these are very highly technical things .  , it 's an added , level of checking on the accuracy of the transcription , as I see it . The reason I did that it was just so that people would not censor not ask to have stuff removed because it was transcribed incorrectly , postdoc a: And the reason I liked it was because grad f: as opposed to ,  postdoc a: was because it ,  it gives them the option of , being able to correct it . So , you have it nicely set up so they email you and ,  grad f: When they submit the form , it gets processed and emailed to me . phd c: Oh , those are the NSA meetings ? phd e: The non - native phd h: Those are postdoc a: Yeah . phd e: The all non - native postdoc a: That 's that 's that 's r grad f:   postdoc a: But what what I meant to say was that it 's the other group that 's not n no m no overlap with our present members . And then maybe it 'd be good to set an explicit deadline , something like a week before that , J July fifteenth date , or two weeks before . professor b: I would suggest we discuss  , if we 're going to have a policy on it , that we discuss the length of time that we want to give people , grad f:   grad f: Well , the only thing I said in the email is that the data is going to be released on the fifteenth . grad f: So my feeling is if someone after the fifteenth says , " wow I suddenly found something " , we 'll delete it from our record . grad f: If someone says " hey , look , I found something in this meeting and it 's libelous and I want it removed " . postdoc a: I I agree with that part , but I think that it would it ,  we need to have , a a a message to them very clearly that beyond this date , you can't make additional changes . professor b: So if we agreed , OK , how long is a reasonable amount of time for people to have if we say two weeks , or if we say a month , I think we should just say that say that , you know , i a as  , " per the the the , page you signed , you have the ability to look over this stuff " and so forth " and , because we w " these ,  I would I would imagine some sort of generic thing that would say " because we , will continually be making these things available to other researchers , this can't be open - ended and so , please give us back your response within this am you know , within this amount of time " , whatever time we agree upon . grad f: Well , did you read the email and look at the pages I sent ? professor b: Did I ? No , I haven't yet . OK , well why don't you do that and then make comments on what you want me to change ? professor b: No , no . I I 'm what I 'm what I 'm I 'm trying to spark a discussion hopefully among people who have read it so that that you can you can , decide on something . professor b: and then grad f: I already did decide something , and that 's what 's in the email . OK , so grad f: And if you disagree with it , why don't you read it and give me comments on it ? postdoc a: Yeah . professor b: Well , the one thing that I did read and that you just repeated to me was that you gave the specific date of July fifteenth . professor b: And you also just said that the reason you said that was because someone said it to you . So what I 'm telling you is that what you should do is come up with a length of time that you guys think is enough grad f: Right . But we can make the assumption , can't we ? that , they will be receiving email , most of the month . Sometimes somebody will be away and , you know , there 's ,  for any length of time that you  , choose there is some person sometime who will not end up reading it . phd h: S so maybe when Am I on , by the way ? grad f: I don't know . The ,  Maybe we should say in w you know , when the whole thing starts , when they sign the the agreement that you know , specify exactly  , what , you know , how how they will be contacted and they can , you know they can be asked to give a phone number and an email address , or both . A And , then , you know , say very clearly that if they don't if we don't hear from them , you know , as Morgan suggested , by a certain time or after a certain period after we contact them that is implicitly giving their agreement . postdoc a: the f phd h: Well , if that 's i tha if that 's already if grad f: so , eh , that 's gonna be a little hard to modify . postdoc a: Well , the form Well , the form doesn't say , if  , you know , " if you don't respond by X number of days or X number of weeks " phd h: I see . So what does it say about the the the process of of ,  y the review process ? postdoc a: It doesn't have a time limit . That you 'll be provided access to the transcripts and then , allowed to remove things that you 'd like to remove , before it goes to the general  , larger audience . phd e: I 'm not as diligent as Chuck , but I had the feeling I should probably respond and tell Adam , like , " I got this and I will do it by this date , and if you don't hear from me by then " You know , in other words responding to your email once , right away , saying " as soon as you get this could you please respond . phd e: And then if you if the person thinks they 'll need more time because they 're out of town or whatever , they can tell you at that point ? Because grad f: Oh , I just I didn't wanna do that , because I don't wanna have a discussion with every person if I can avoid it . phd e: Well , it 's grad f: So what I wanted to do was just send it out and say " on the fifteenth , the data is released , postdoc a:   grad f: if you wanna do something about it , do something about it , but that 's it " . So , we 're assuming that phd h: Well , that 's that would be great if but you should probably have a legal person look at this and make sure it 's OK . Because if you if you , do this and you then there 's a dispute later and , some you know , someone who understands these matters concludes that they didn't have , you know , enough opportunity to actually exercise their their right phd e: Or they they might never have gotten the email , because although they signed this , they don't know by which date to expect your email . grad f: So let 's say someone I send this out , and someone doesn't respond . Do we delete every meeting that they were in ? phd e: Well , then grad f: I don't think so . phd e: but that 's why there 's such a thing as registered mail grad f: That will happen . Because people don't read their email , or they 'll read and say " I don't care about that , I 'm not gonna delete anything " and they don just won't reply to it . phd h: Maybe  , do we have mailing addresses for these people ? grad f: No . postdoc a: But the ones that we 're dealing with now are all local , phd h: Well , then postdoc a: except the ones who  , we we 're totally in contact with all the ones in those two groups . postdoc a: So maybe , I you know , that 's not that many people and if I if ,  i i there is an advantage to having them admit and if I can help with with processing that , I will . It 's it 's there is an advantage to having them be on record as having received the mail and indicating grad f: Yeah . grad f: And so it seems like this is a little odd for it to be coming up yet again . professor b: Right ? So phd e: You 'll either wonder at the beginning or you 'll wonder at the end . phd e: there 's no way to get around I It 's pretty much the same am amount of work except for an additional email just saying they got the email . phd e: And maybe it 's better legally to wonder before you know , a little bit earlier than grad f: Well postdoc a: It 's much easier to explain this way . Well , why don't you talk t postdoc a: T t to have it on record . grad f: Morgan , can you talk to our lawyer about it , and find out what the status is on this ? Cuz I don't wanna do something that we don't need to . grad f: Because what I 'm telling you , people won't respond to the email . No matter what you do , you there 're gonna be people who you 're gonna have to make a lot of effort to get in contact with . grad d: i it 's k grad f: And do we want to spend that effort ? phd h:  . postdoc a: Except I really think in this case I I 'm agr I agree with Liz , that we need to be in the clear and not have to after the fact say " oh , but I assumed " , and " oh , I 'm sorry that your email address was just accumulating mail without notifying you " , you know . professor b: But the thing is that , you know , I I I think , without going through a whole expensive thing with our lawyers , from my previous conversations with them , my my sense very much is that we would want something on record as indicating that they actually were aware of this . grad f: and I thought that we had even gone by the lawyers asking about that and they said you have to s they 've already signed away the f with that form that they 've already signed once . postdoc a: I don't remember that this issue of the time period allowed for response was ever covered . professor b: We certainly didn't talk , about with them at all about , the manner of them being made the , materials available . phd h: We do it like with these professor b: That was something that was sort of just within our implementation . phd h: We can use it we can use a a ploy like they use to ,  you know , that when they serve , like  , you know , like dead - beat dads , they they they make it look like they won something in the lottery and then they open the envelope grad d: And they 're served . So you just make it , you know , " oh , you won you know , go to this web site and you 've ,  you 're " phd e: That 's why you never open these things that come in the mail . grad f: Well , it 's just , we 've gone from one extreme to the other , where at one point , a few months ago , Morgan was you were saying let 's not do anything , phd h: Right . phd h: i i it it might well be the case grad f: and now we 're we 're saying we have to follow up each person and get a signature ? phd h: it might Right . grad f: what are we gonna doing here ? phd h: It might well be the case that that this is perfectly you know , this is enough to give us a basis t to just , eh , assume their consent if they don't reply . phd h: But , I 'm not you know , me not being a lawyer , I wouldn't just wanna do that without having the the expert , opinion on that . grad f: Then I think we had better find out , so that we can find a phd h: Yeah . I I think that it 's a common courtesy to ask them  , to expect for them to , be able to have @ @ us try to contact them , grad f: For for th postdoc a: u just in case they hadn't gotten their email . My Adam , my my view before was about the nature of what was of the presentation , grad f:   professor b: of of how my my the things that we 're questioning were along the lines of how easy  , h how m how much implication would there be that it 's likely you 're going to be changing something , as opposed to grad f:   professor b: But , the attorneys , I  , I can guarantee you , the attorneys will always come back with and we have to decide how stringent we want to be in these things , but they will always come back with saying that , you need to you want to have someth some paper trail or which includes electronic trail that they have , in fact O K 'd it . professor b: So , I think that if you f i if we send the email as you have and if there 's half the people , say , who don't respond at all by , you know , some period of time , we can just make a list of these people and hand it to ,  you know , just give it to me and I 'll hand it to administrative staff or whatever , grad f: Right . professor b: and they 'll just call them up and say , you know , " have you Is is this OK ? And would you please mail you know , mail Adam that it is , if i if it , you know , is or not . phd e: The other thing that there 's a psychological effect that at least for most people , that if they 've responded to your email saying " yes , I will do it " or " yes , I got your email " , they 're more likely to actually do it later than to just ignore it . phd e: And of course we don't want them to bleep things out , but it it 's a little bit better if we 're getting the their , final response , once they 've answered you once than if they never answer you 'd at al at all . phd e: You know , an official OK from somebody is better than no answer , even if they responded that they got your email . And they 're probably more likely to do that once they 've responded that they got the email . professor b: I think the main thing is  , what lawyers do is they always look at worst cases . professor b: So they s so so Tha - that 's what they 're paid to do . professor b: And so , it is certainly possible that , somebody 's server would be down or something and they wouldn't actually hear from us , and then they find this thing is in there and we 've already distributed it to someone . So , what it says in there , in fact , is that they will be given an opportunity to blah - blah - blah , postdoc a:   professor b: but if in fact if we sent them something or we thought we sent them something but they didn't actually receive it for some reason , then we haven't given them that . grad f: Well , so how far do we have to go ? Do we need to get someone 's signature ? Or , is email enough ? professor b: I i i em email is enough .  , I 've been through this  , I 'm not a lawyer , but I 've been through these things a f things f like this a few times with lawyers now grad f:   phd c: Do you track , when people log in to look at the ? grad f:  . grad f: If they don't submit the form , it goes in the general web log . grad f: Right ? Cuz if someone just visits the web site that doesn't imply anything in particular . postdoc a: I I could get you on the notify list if you want me to . professor b: So again , hopefully , this shouldn't be quite as odious a problem either way , in any of the extremes we 've talked about because  , we 're talking a pretty small number of people . grad f: W For this set , I 'm not worried , because we basically know everyone on it . grad f: You know , they 're all more or less here or it 's it 's Eric and Dan and so on . But for some of the others , you 're talking about visitors who are gone from ICSI , whose email addresses may or may not work , professor b:   grad f: and So what are we gonna do when we run into someone that we can't get in touch with ? postdoc a: I don't think ,  They 're so recent , these visitors . postdoc a: They 're prominent enough that they 're easy to find through I  , I I w I 'll be able to if you have any trouble finding them , I really think I could find them .  , and I think , you know , if you go into a room and close the door and and ask their permission and they 're not there , it doesn't seem that that 's the intent of , meaning here .  , because they they filled out a contact information and that 's where I 'm sending the information . professor b: Well , the way ICSI goes , people , who , were here ten years ago still have acc have forwards to other accounts and so on . professor b: So it 's unusual that that they ,  grad f: So my original impression was that that was sufficient , that if they give us contact information and that contact information isn't accurate that we fulfilled our burden . postdoc a: I just professor b: So if we get to a boundary case like that then maybe I will call the attorney about it . professor b: and and and , you know , people people see long emails about things that they don't think is gonna be high priority , they typically , don't don't read it , or half read it . postdoc a: And actually , professor b: But postdoc a: I I didn't anticipate this so I that 's why I didn't give this comment , and it I this discussion has made me think it might be nice to have a follow - up email within the next couple of days saying " by the way , you know , we wanna hear back from you by X date and please " , and then add what Liz said " please , respond to please indicate you received this mail . " professor b: or e well , maybe even additionally , " Even if you 've decided you have no changes you 'd like to make , if you could tell us that " . You know , it makes you feel m like , if you were gonna p if you 're predicting that you might not answer , you have a chance now to say that . Whereas , I  , I would be much more likely myself , phd c: And the other th phd e: given all my email , t to respond at that point , saying " you know what , I 'm probably not gonna get to it " or whatever , rather than just having seen the email , thinking I might get to it , and never really , pushing myself to actually do it until it 's too late . I was I was thinking that it also lets them know that they don't have to go to the page to accept this . So that way they could they can see from that email that if they just write back and say " I got it , no changes " , they 're off the hook . phd c: They don't have to go to the web page professor b: the other thing I 've learned from dealing with dealing with people sending in reviews and so forth , is , if you say " you 've got three months to do this review " , people do it , you know , two and seven eighths months from now . professor b: If you say " you 've got three weeks to do this review " , they do do it , you know , two and seven eighths weeks from now they do the review . professor b: And ,  So , if we make it a little less time , I don't think it 'll be that much grad f: Well , and also if we want it ready by the fifteenth , that means we better give them deadline of the first , if we have any prayer of actually getting everyone to respond in time . professor b: There 's the responding part and there 's also what if , I hope this doesn't happen , what if there are a bunch of deletions that have to get put in and changes ? grad f: Right . professor b: if we want it to grad f: Ugh ! Disk space , postdoc a: By the way , has has Jeremy signed the form ? grad f: oh my god ! I hadn't thought about that . grad f: That for every meeting any meeting which has any bleeps in it we need yet another copy of . phd c: Do you have to do the other close - talking ? phd e: as well as all of these . phd e: You have to do all You could just do it in that time period , though , grad f: Yes . postdoc a: Well I you know , I think at a certain point , that copy that has the deletions will become the master copy . So I I don't want I really would rather make a copy of it , rather than bleep it out professor b: Are you del are you bleeping it by adding ? grad f: and then Overlapping . So what I really think is " bleep " professor b: I I I I understand , but is is it summing signals grad f: and then I want to professor b: or do you delete the old one and put the new one in ? grad f: I delete the old one , put the new one in . postdoc a: But And then w I was gonna say also that the they don't have to stay on the system , as you know , professor b: Yeah . postdoc a: cuz cuz the the ones grad f: Say again ? postdoc a: Once it 's been successfully bleeped , can't you rely on the ? phd c: Or we 'll tell people the frequency of the beep professor b: Encrypt it . postdoc a: Can't you rely on the archiving to preserve the older version ? phd h: Oh , yeah . You could encrypt it , you know , with a with a two hundred bit thousand bit ,  grad d: You can use spread spectrum . grad d: Then you have , like , subliminal , messages , grad f: But , ha you 've seen the this the speech recognition system that reversed very short segments . It 's just we 've had meeting after meeting after meeting a on this and it seems like we 've never gotten it resolved . And ,  and I 'm sorry responding without , having much knowledge , but the thing is , I am , like , one of these people who gets a gazillion mails and and stuff comes in as grad f: Well , and that 's exactly why I did it the way I did it , which is the default is if you do nothing we 're gonna release it . grad f: Because , you know , I have my stack of emails of to d to be done , that , you know , fifty or sixty long , and the ones at the top I 'm never gonna get to . professor b: So so the only thing we 're missing is is some way to respond to easily to say , " OK , go ahead " or something . So , i this is gonna mean phd c: Just re - mail them to yourself and then they 're at the bottom . The m email doesn't specify that you can just reply to the email , as op as opposed to going to the form postdoc a:   phd h: In postdoc a: And it also doesn't give a a specific I didn't think of it . grad f: and postdoc a: S I think it 's a good idea an ex explicit time by which this will be considered definite .  , I got email , and it i if I use a MIME - capable mail reader , it actually says , you know , click on this button to confirm receipt of the of the mail . phd h: So grad f: You you can grad d: It 's like certified mail . This is not So , I I know , you can tell , you know , the , mail delivery agent to to confirm that the mail was delivered to your mailbox . phd h: th there was a button that when you clicked on it , it would send , you know , a actual acknowledgement to the sender that you had actually looked at the mail . phd h: But it o but it only works for , you know , MIME - capable you know , if you use Netscape or something like that for your n grad f: Yeah . professor b: It 's not that you 've looked at it , it 's that you 've looked at it and and and agree with one of the possible actions . professor b: Right ? phd h: You know , you can put this button anywhere you want , professor b: Oh ? Oh , I see . phd h: and you can put it the bottom of the message and say " here , by you know , by clicking on this , I I agree  , you know , I acknowledge " professor b: That i i my first - born children are yours , and Yeah . Are ,  grad f: Well , I could put a URL in there without any difficulty and even pretty simple MIME readers can do that . postdoc a: But why shouldn't they just email back ? I don't see there 's a problem . phd h: I 'm just saying that grad f: Well , I cuz I use a text mail reader . phd h: if ev but I 'm phd e: Don't you use VI for your mai ? phd h: Yeah . phd h: So I i There 's these logos that you can put at the bottom of your web page , like " powered by VI " . phd e: Like , there were three meetings this time , or so postdoc a: Six . So I guess if you 're in both these types of meetings , you 'd have a lot . But How  , it also depends on how many Like , if we release this time it 's a fairly small number of meetings , but what if we release , like , twenty - five meetings to people ? In th grad f: Well , what my s expectation is , is that we 'll send out one of these emails every time a meeting has been checked and is ready . grad f: maybe Is that the way it 's gonna be , you think , Jane ? postdoc a: I agree with you . It 's we could do it ,  I I could I 'd be happy with either way , batch - wise What I was thinking  , so this one That was exactly right , that we had a  ,  I I had wanted to get the entire set of twelve hours ready . But , this was the biggest clump I could do by a time where I thought it was reasonable . My ,  I was thinking that with the NSA meetings , I 'd like there are three of them , and they 're  , I I will have them done by Monday .  , unfortunately the time is later and I don't know how that 's gonna work out , but I thought it 'd be good to have that released as a clump , too , because then , you know , they 're they they have a it it 's in a category , it 's not quite so distracting to them , is what I was thinking , and it 's all in one chu But after that , when we 're caught up a bit on this process , then , I could imagine sending them out periodically as they become available .  , it 's a question of how distracting it is to the people who have to do the checking . Adam had a script that will put everything back together and there was Well , there was one small problem but it was a simple thing to fix . Now we haven't actually had anyone go through that meeting , to see whether the transcript is correct and to see how much was missed and all that sort of stuff . There are a fair number of " yeahs " and "  - huhs " that it 's just that aren't in there . Like you said , that 's that 's gonna be our standard proc that 's what the transcribers are gonna be spending most of their time doing , I would imagine , postdoc a:   professor b: It 's gonna postdoc a: Do you suppose that was because they weren't caught by the pre - segmenter ? grad f: Yes , absolutely . So maybe when the detector for that gets better or something I w I There 's another issue which is this we 've been , contacted by University of Washington now , of course , to ,  We sent them the transcripts that correspond to those six meetings and they 're downloading the audio files . Yeah , I pointed them to the set that Andreas put , on the web so th if they want to compare directly with his results they can . And , then once , th we can also point them at the , the original meetings and they can grab those , too , with SCP . grad f: There 's another meeting in here , what , at four ? Right ? Yeah , so we have to finish by three forty - five . phd h: D d So , does Washi - does does UW wanna u do this wanna use this data for recognition or for something else ? phd c: for recognition . phd e: didn't they want to do language modeling on , you know , recognition - compatible transcripts phd h: Oh . postdoc a: This is to show you , some of the things that turn up during the checking procedure . phd e: or ? postdoc a:  @ @ So , this is from one of the NSA meetings and , i if you 're familiar with the diff format , the arrow to the left is what it was , and the arrow to the right is what it was changed to . The last time ,  " And the transcriber thought " little too much " But , really , it was " we learned too much " , which makes more sense syntactically as well . phd h: And these the parentheses were f from postdoc a: Then Oh , this that 's the convention for indicating uncertain . So the original was " So that 's not so Claudia 's not the bad master here " , and then he laughs , but it really " web master " . postdoc a: And then you see another type of uncertainty which is , you know , they just didn't know what to make out of that . grad d: Jane , these are from IBM ? grad f: Spit upon ? grad d: The top lines ? postdoc a: No , no . postdoc a: The transcribers transcriber 's version ver versus the checked version . The , version beyond this is So instead of saying " or " , especially those words , " also " and " oder " and some other ones . postdoc a: cuz it 's , like , below this it 's a little subliminal there . OK , then you got , instead of " from something - or - other cards " , it 's " for multicast " .  , and the final one , the transcriber had th " in the core network itself or the exit unknown , not the internet unknown " . And it it comes through as " in the core network itself of the access provider , not the internet backbone core " . postdoc a: but , you know in this this area it really does pay to ,  to double check and I 'm hoping that when the checked versions are run through the recognizer that you 'll see s substantial improvements in performance cuz the you know , there 're a lot of these in there . So how often ? grad f: Yeah , but I bet I bet they 're acoustically challenging parts anyway , though . grad f: Oh , really ?  , it 's Oh , so it 's just jargon .  this is cuz , you know you don't realize in daily life how much you have top - down influences in what you 're hearing . phd h: Well , but postdoc a: And it 's jar it 's jargon coupled with a foreign accent . phd h: But but But we don't  , our language model right now doesn't know about these words anyhow . phd h: you know , un until you actually get a decent language model , @ @ Adam 's right . postdoc a: Well , also from the standpoint of getting people 's approval , professor b: Yeah . postdoc a: cuz if someone sees a page full of  , barely decipherable w you know , sentences , and then is asked to approve of it or not , it 's ,  grad f: Did I say that ? professor b: Yeah . That would be a shame if people said " well , I don't approve it because the it 's not what I said " . grad f: Well , that 's exactly why I put the extra option in , professor b: Yeah . grad f: is that I was afraid people would say , " let 's censor that because it 's wrong " , professor b: Yeah . postdoc a: And then I also the final thing I have for transcription is that I made a purchase of some other headphones phd h: C postdoc a: because of the problem of low gain in the originals . And and they very much appro they mu much prefer the new ones , and actually I  , I I think that there will be fewer things to correct because of the the choice . Ugh ! postdoc a: but , they 're just not as good as these , in this with this respect to this particular task . postdoc a: I don't know exactly , grad f: But postdoc a: but we chose them because that 's what 's been used here by prominent projects in transcription . phd h: So you have spare headsets ? postdoc a: Sorry , what ? phd h: You have spare headsets ? grad f: They 're just earphones .  , just earphones ?  , because I , I could use one on my workstation , just to t because sometimes I have to listen to audio files and I don't have to b go borrow it from someone and postdoc a: We have actua actually I have W Well , the thing is , that if we have four people come to work for a day , I was I was hanging on to the others for , eh for spares , phd h: Oh , OK . postdoc a: It 'd just have to be a s a separate order an added order . phd e: Yeah , that We should order a cou  , t two or three or four , actually . phd e: We have phd h: I think I have a pair that I brought from home , but it 's f just for music listening professor b: No . phd e: Sh - Just get the model number phd h: and it 's not Nnn . grad f: W  , could you email out the brand ? postdoc a: Oh , sure . So what 's the other thing on the agenda actually ? grad f: the only one was Don wanted to , talk about disk space yet again . phd e: It 's one of these it 's it 's social professor b: It 's I i i it i phd e: and , discourse level grad d: Yeah . professor b: double double grad f: Yeah , it was really goo phd e: See , if I had that little scratch - pad , I would have made an X there . So , without thinking about it , when I offered up my hard drive last week grad f: Oh , no . I ,  I realized that we 're going to be doing a lot of experiments , o for this , paper we 're writing , so we 're probably gonna need a lot more We 're probably gonna need that disk space that we had on that eighteen gig hard drive . We just need to phd e: I think we need , like , another eighteen gig disk to be safe .  , I guess the thing is is , all I need is to hang it off , like , the person who 's coming in , Sonali 's , computer . phd h: Oh , so so , you mean the d the internal the disks on the machines that we just got ? grad d: Whew . grad d: So are we gonna move the stuff off of my hard drive onto that when those come in ? grad f: On phd h: Oh , oh . phd e: Do when when is this planned for roughly ? phd c: They should be I I imagine next week or something . So grad f: If you 're if you 're desperate , I have some space on my drive . grad d: I think if I 'm grad f: But I I vacillate between no space free and a few gig free . phd e: Well , each meeting is like a gig or something , grad f: It 's eventually real disk space . I was just going to comment that I I 'm going to , be on the phone with Mari tomorrow , late afternoon . She was re she was referring to it as I think this actually didn't just come from her , but this is what , DARPA had asked for . But of course the fiscal year starts in October , so I don't quite understand w w why we do an annual report that we 're writing in July . It 's that the meeting is in July so they so DARPA just said do an annual report . I 'll do it , you know , as much as I can without bothering people , just by looking at at papers and status reports . And if ,  if I have some questions I 'll grad f: When we remember to fill them out . If people could do it as soon as as you can , if you haven't done one si recently .  , but , you know , I 'm I 'm sure before it 's all done , I 'll end up bugging people for for more clarification about stuff . But , I don't know , I guess I guess I know pretty much what people have been doing . And if something hasn't ,  I 'll be talking to her late tomorrow afternoon , and if something hasn't been in a status report and you think it 's important thing to mention on this kind of thing , just pop me a one - liner and and and I 'll I 'll have it in front of me for the phone conversation . grad f: Not here , but later today ? grad d: We should probably talk off - line about when we 're gonna talk off - line . Yeah , I might want to get updated about it in about a week cuz , I 'm actually gonna have a a few days off the following week , a after the after the picnic . grad f: So we were gonna do sort of status of speech transcription automatic transcription , but we 're kind of running late . phd e: How long does it take you to save the data ? grad f: Fifteen minutes . grad f: ten minute phd e: Guess we should stop , like , twenty of at the latest . professor b: Well , I would love to hear about it , grad f: What do you have to say ? professor b: especially since grad f: I 'm interested , so professor b: Yeah . Well , I 'm gonna be on the phone tomorrow , so this is just a good example of the sort of thing I 'd like to hear about . professor b: Cuz he looked at you phd h: What ? professor b: and says you 're sketching . phd h: I I I I 'm not actually , I 'm not sure what ? Are we supposed to have done something ? grad f: No . grad f: Whew ! professor b: That was grad f: Dodged that bullet . phd e: Yeah , we 're phd h: the the next thing on our agenda is to go back and look at the ,  the automatic alignments because , I got some I I I learned from Thilo what data we can use as a benchmark to see how well we 're doing on automatic alignments of the background speech or , of the foreground speech with background speech . phd e: And then , I guess , the new data that Don will start to process phd h: But , we haven't actually phd e: the ,  when he can get these You know , before we were working with these segments that were all synchronous and that caused a lot of problems phd h: Mmm . phd e: And so that 's sort of a stage - two of trying the same kinds of alignments with the tighter boundaries with them is really the next step .  , but we 're hoping to have a paper for that as well , which should be an interesting grad f: When 's it due ? phd e: The t paper isn't due until August . phd e: But , the good news is that that will have sort of the European experts in prosody sort of a different crowd , and I think we 're the only people working on prosody in meetings so far , so that should be interesting . postdoc a: What 's the name of the meeting ? phd e: it 's ISCA Workshop on Prosody in Speech Recognition and Understanding , or something like that phd h: It 's called Prosody to grad f:   phd e: some generic  , so it 's focused on using prosody in automatic systems and there 's a  , a web page for it . Well , that th Hey , if that 's what it takes , that 's fine with me 