The what we have to get through in this meeting is firstly the prototype presentation from you two , so you can show us what you've been working on so diligently . project manager:  then industrial designer: project manager: then Cat's going to present the evaluation criteria that we're going to be evaluating this against . user interface: project manager: Then I need to say some st a few things about finance , 'cause we have to check that it's within the finance criteria .  and then we'll be making sure that our product fits both the evaluation criteria from Cat and the financial limits .  and then we  will have a brief evaluation of the whole process of production and design that we've been through . S marketing: And then do we get to make a remote control ? industrial designer: project manager: 'Cause we missed out . project manager: So industrial designer: project manager: it's now I guess that we're supposed to start at fifteen thirty five , so we've got until four fifteen . How how much do we have , forty minutes ? project manager: Is that right ? user interface: Yeah , about four fifteen , yeah . Do you want user interface: So , you said  are are we starting with the the project manager: Yes . user interface: so will you maybe start with like the  the shape and things and and then I will explain the the user interface th  things , like the buttons and the scrolling things and industrial designer: Okay . project manager: user interface: marketing: You think bananas are a safe thing to use ? project manager: industrial designer:  marketing: It's a bit  phallic . project manager: Does it vibrate when you press the buttons ? industrial designer:  so basically it's the it's the flip open thing again . project manager: And it's the whole thing's made of rubber , is that user interface:  yeah . marketing: Is it to scale , or do you think you can make it a bit smaller ? user interface: Yeah , . user interface: yeah , but  one thing we actually kind of  forgot while designing , that one side was supposed to be rounder , industrial designer: Yeah , user interface: so we said the back side round , yeah . marketing: and then the whole shape's curvy , so I would say that this curvy does look quite like a vegetable . project manager: user interface: So so  the user interface as as we discussed last time   on on the on the cover we just have the very basic things . user interface: So we have that n  channels here starting from   one two three there would be numbers in in the on the actual one . user interface: So it's four , up to four , up to seven , up to nine and zero , z zero here . It's it's quite standard  place for it and and also the colour is quite often red , so it's it's kind of user friendly . user interface: And then these ones would be for flipping the channels back and like the previous one and the next one . user interface: And and we would also have a l little  thing saying here , previous and ne prevon prevon next . user interface: On the side , marketing: Ah , you did get that in then , user interface: this one . user interface: And and and it's it's on the back is  cover or back lid , because if you flip it open , you can still do the scrolling here . user interface: See ? So the volume is you just scroll , but then once you flip it open , okay , there there you have the screen project manager: Yeah . user interface: You can move back and forth and then if you need to m choose something on the screen , you just push the cen  the middle button . project manager: Y or you could have it so you on the wheel if you marketing: On the wheel , like if you hold the wheel down then it will mute . industrial designer:  on the L_C_D_ we r you know , the main menu will have various options . user interface: Well , but the but the mute yeah , the scrolling is kind of you have to scroll all the way to make it mute , right ? project manager: But if you hold it in , industrial designer:  . marketing: Yeah , but it's a scroll and click , isn't it ? project manager: if it's a scroll and click so you hold it in ? marketing: Okay , cool . user interface: So I think it project manager: And it's with the the black and yellow you're even in the right colours . user interface: Yeah , I think  we could do l the logo in grey , as it is on the website . industrial designer: project manager: user interface: project manager:  it's a sort of intermediate colour , I guess . project manager: industrial designer: marketing: I hate Play-Do , it's just minging . project manager: I suspect we're gonna have a couple of minor finance issues , but  we'll se I'm sure we can get around them somehow . marketing: industrial designer: project manager: We'll just send all of our manufacturing to some nice poor country industrial designer: project manager: and cut some of the prices that way . marketing: so one is , you know , yes , it totally meets with that requirement and seven is , no , it really doesn't , we need to go back and start again . Basically , what I did was I went through all the like user requirements and things that we've done and we've worked on and like made a list of them .  you know , so that we can evaluate each one and like so it was about going back to the start and saying oh yeah , we did manage to do that , or oh no , we really forgot about that . Is that right ? marketing: Yes , I did have A_ , B_ , C_ , and D_ down here , but it seems to have turned into like just bullet points . But if you can imagine that they say A_ , B_ , C_ , and D_ , then that would be really good . marketing: Well , I thought we'd  kinda said that you'd have a little thing to stick on the T_V_ ? project manager: Yeah , just prepare one now . What do you all say ? industrial designer: So ? project manager: I reckon it user interface: S seven was th the maximum , yeah ? marketing: Yeah . Okay   what I've done on the next page is I've set it up so we just put the marks in . project manager:  we can if we industrial designer: I can I can take note   marketing: If you take a note of them , and then I'll put them in in a minute . marketing: Okay , so we're all agreeing on seven for A_ ? project manager: Yeah . Does it match the operating behaviour of the user ? industrial designer:  the the only thing that we were considering was that  this thing is kind of more for right-handed people than for left-handed people , project manager: I think it does .  industrial designer: so if you're left-handed you're kind of left  scrolling with your finger . user interface: so y so we we might do we might want to do like a  another m model another another version , which is like exactly the mirror image of this one . project manager: 'cause you don't always have all left-handers or all right-handers in a family . industrial designer: So bu it's it's not a huge problem , marketing: I th I think it's not it's not like it's a pen . user interface: But then then I think left-handed people are already used to discrimination anyway , project manager: Yeah . user interface: so they just marketing: Yeah , but  because it's not like it's a pen , you know , left-handed people can't normally write right-handed , user interface: Yeah . user interface: Yeah , because  anyway , right-handed people would be able to scroll with it , marketing: Yeah . user interface: so i if the majority are right-handed , it's  project manager: marketing: So  that does kind of negate the whole R_S_I_ issue . marketing: So maybe we need to put that needs a little bit of investigation , maybe give it a five , I would say ? project manager:  marketing: What do you what do you all think ? industrial designer:  . user interface: Or maybe six , because it's just one one i one among the issues , project manager: Yeah , I think I think for  user interface:  . project manager:  most people are right-handed , so in in terms of our greatest target group , I think it's pretty good , but we might want to flag it for management , they want might want to  user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: It might be a little clumsy when when it opens up , right , project manager: They industrial designer: so it opens on the side . industrial designer: So you guys can decide wh whether user interface: it will be and it will be it won't be heavy . user interface: Yeah well yeah , project manager: The length is gonna be difficu user interface: but it's it's a bit long . marketing: But you were thinking about making it smaller , yeah ? industrial designer:  this this kind of  makes it more project manager:  . marketing: So it works like a mobile phone flipping , but y you know , as long as that side's flat , than that will work . Are are we admitting defeat on C_ or are we saying we're gonna stick a locator on the T_V_ ? industrial designer: No , we have a locator . project manager: No , we're gonna put it like we've got th there's the locator dot . Cool , so that means you need a that does mean you need a little speaker on it though , user interface:  that you stick on T_V_ . user interface: Yeah well w but l but the speak sample speaker is included , so it it has some capacity to  to do some to make some sounds , so yeah . If   if this means intuitive , if it means the way people kind of are used to finding things project manager: Yeah . user interface: and it's I th I think it's project manager: I'd say six , 'cause the  the the standard layout for numbers is three three three and one , rather than the way you've got it . marketing: Yeah , and  d industrial designer: And  even the scroll , it's a it's a new technology project manager: So industrial designer: so m m might be a little more difficult for people to get used to in the beginni project manager: Might be industrial designer: so it is kind of not very intuitive but  it's a good technology ,  once they get used to it . project manager: But it and it's something that they will be experiencing in a lot of different places soon . marketing: So , should we maybe say f a five industrial designer: So l marketing: and say it is intuitive , project manager: Five ? marketing: but it's different , so , do you know ,  it's obvious how to use it , project manager: Yeah . It has taken a little while , hasn't it ?  intuitive but Sorry , it's really hard to write on those . marketing: I just went a bit mad , didn't I ? project manager: marketing:  okay , cool , E_ , okay .  I would guess this comes back from this whole B_ thing links in here , so possibly for left-handed . user interface: but then who would be really pushing the buttons so much on the on the remote control anyway , industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: Yeah , so it's kinda industrial designer: Yeah , I I think it is ergonomic . marketing: I used to send fifty texts a day , you know , project manager: Well we've banned them from marketing: and I never got repetitive strain injury from that , project manager: industrial designer:  yeah . industrial designer: And moreover it it has  L_C_D_ and everything , project manager: Yeah . marketing: Hang on , how come it's showing up with the things there but it only had bullet points there ? That's just project manager: Ah , that's the second one . So you must have changed it on this one where it's got score , but not on the previous slide . industrial designer: Anyway it ha yeah , user interface: Technologi well industrial designer: it's the most sophisticated remote that I ever seen . Well  we have we have the sample speaker as well , which is yeah , it's kind of new . marketing: Yeah , but  you don't project manager: All of the components have been used in other things before . marketing: They're never been used i they've never been using remote remote control before I don't think . project manager: What do you reckon , five , six ? marketing: Yeah , what do you all think ? user interface: Six . marketing: Six ? user interface:  how how far can you go with a remote control , really ? project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: marketing: Well , that's it ,  user interface: It still has to do what i what it has to do . industrial designer: marketing: Yeah , but  everything has been used in space before it gets to anyone else really , hasn't it ? project manager: marketing: So , I don't think many peop project manager: Space remote . user interface: Yeah , isn't it fashionable ? project manager: industrial designer: The carrot banana remote . marketing: So , we give it seven , and we write user interface: Fruit fruit and vegetables are fashionable these days , so . user interface: What's the assessment ? marketing: So , we need the average here , so we got user interface: The average is about six and something . marketing: So we've got four sevens , user interface: No , wait , a little bit under six . project manager: Fifty one , one , two , three , four , five , six , seven , eight . project manager: Six point point industrial designer: Fifty one divided by user interface: Six point something , yeah . project manager: Now wait until we get to finance and then we'll see if we can afford it . marketing: project manager: That's all you've got at the moment , or did you have anything more ? marketing:  no , that's it , project manager: That's it ? marketing: yeah . marketing: user interface: project manager: Computer no signal ? industrial designer:  I guess it'll have to wait for a bit . project manager: It could be marketing: Yeah , but rubber comes coloured , doesn't it ? You know . project manager: it's I would maybe it's like if you want titanium coloured or wood coloured , it's different . user interface: Or maybe maybe if you want some kind of pattern thing on it , project manager: Yeah , let's leave it as zero , 'cause it's easy . project manager: We we're definitely going to have to user interface: We have pushbuttons , industrial designer:  . project manager: so we've got pushbutton , and then we've user interface: scro we have scroll wheel as well . project manager: Scroll wheel with pushbutton we had , no ? industrial designer: No  we we have  yeah . user interface: Yeah , but what do we ha we have L_C_ display , but but the wh but the s spinning wheel project manager: But the the spinning wheel's not there . I have think maybe it's integrated with the L_C_ display ? user interface: Yeah . marketing: We've got more than one pushbutton though , user interface: Okay , let's yeah . project manager: marketing: haven't we ? project manager: I think the pushbutton oh . marketing: 'Cause then you have project manager: I don't know if that's one marketing: That means you can only have twenty five push buttons in total doesn't it ? Not counting anything , we'd still be in budget . industrial designer: Huh ? project manager: Push what  industrial designer: Wh wh what is the limit ?  . project manager: whether whether pushbutton means that p count by button or do we user interface: We have to count all of them , or yeah . industrial designer: No it says what what is the kind of interface , marketing: Well it doesn't , but it  project manager: No . industrial designer: if it is pushbutton then you got a zero point five , it's a scroll wheel so we we've put it's pushbutton and scroll wheel and L_C_D_ display , project manager: Yeah . marketing: Yeah , the sample sensor will have to go , 'cause that's the most expensive thing on there . marketing: But that's a bit of a gimmick anyway really , isn't it ? industrial designer:  and the locator also goes away . marketing:  does project manager: What else does it need ? user interface: Well the speaker  the sample speaker is is expensive , but we could just have some some very very easy device that just beeps . project manager: Yeah , 'cause the sample speaker was , I think , more complicated then just a beeping thing . project manager: Yeah , okay , so we industrial designer: A also i in the case I'm not sure that you will evaluate this as a curved surface , because it's just rubber , so it's probably a flat surface rubber . marketing: See , I was gonna say the scroll wheel pushbutton thing , 'cause project manager: Take it down to just a scroll wheel . We could do industrial designer: So tha that mean that we cannot press how do we how do we make a selection in  in the L_C_D_ ? user interface: Yeah , then then we would be in the b budget . industrial designer: If in the L_C_D_ we can scroll , right ? But how do we make a selection if we d cannot push the button . user interface: Yeah b no no , you can push this one , but we don't have a pushbutton  we ca we don't have this muting mechanism for this scrolling thing . industrial designer: it's it's the scroll wheel and I thought we were referring to this as a scroll spinning wheel and pushbutton thing . That's the spin wheel though , isn't it ? Didn't that come with the L_C_ project manager: That's with the L_C_ industrial designer: That comes with the L_C_D_ ? marketing: Yeah . marketing: Unless we just take off the scroll wheel altogether project manager: It's nothing n marketing: and just have pushbuttons for the volume . project manager: Yeah , marketing:  the scroll wheel's pretty cool , but project manager: I have industrial designer: Instead of scrolling here we have two buttons here , up for up and down . Oh look , we're way under budget and we'll make huge profits and we'll all get bonuses . marketing: Yeah , well we could admit to the single curve , couldn't we ? industrial designer: project manager: Or or that we have to have some sort of special colour . project manager: and then I'll take I can send it back to management and say we weren't quite sure about the colour , if that costs extra then we've still got some space for it , industrial designer: We have , yeah . industrial designer: Because we keep all the features , we keep voice recognition , we keep L_C_D_ display . marketing: We just got rid of a gimmick that was never anyway , industrial designer:  yeah . marketing: and the scroll wheel is  essentially the two buttons that was it's not a great difference I don't think . user interface: But yeah , it's it's not like sample speaker , but it will just beep , so we still have the locate . industrial designer: project manager: Tha user interface: Which colour , the the colour of the phone or the colour of the industrial designer: marketing: Oh the the beeper thing . project manager: 'Cause we we won't have run out of our pot of Play-Doh .  we need we've just got about ten minutes or so left of the meeting , so it would be good if we could just have a little talk about the project itself and how it went ,  so that we can feed back to the management for next time they're designing a product . project manager: Feedback ? Ideas ? user interface: Yeah  , as far as creativity is concerned , yeah I think there was there was room for creativity . The only the only problem being that at the end we had to cut some things down because of the the budget we had . industrial designer: I think  n one thing that was lacking  was that we did not know what the various things cost to begin with . marketing: If we'd had that sheet at the beginning should've been like , okay , so we can have that lot , let's just throw it together and do what we can . project manager: But in terms of the process of  going and working individually and then coming back to a meeting , that that worked in terms of . marketing: so you didn't st go off and think , wouldn't it be great to have a vibrating remote control shaped like a banana , project manager: industrial designer: marketing: and then , you know , come back three days later and Jen's going look , look , it vibrates and it looks like a banana . That would just be so cool , to d do all your notes and s project manager: Yeah , you could take it to lectures and just write stuff down industrial designer: Yeah yeah yeah , project manager: and have it printed out when you got back to the office . industrial designer: that's it's it's project manager: They great ? industrial designer: I wonder what one of these costs . project manager: Do you think they'd notice if one went ? marketing: I don't think you should say that was the recording . project manager: But that worked well having having a whiteboard that we could draw on as well as having the PowerPoint , 'cause the I find that the problem with PowerPoint often is that it's so static and you can't change it once you're in there , marketing: It is a bit limiting , isn't it ? industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: Yeah , and and and this time also the time limits but actually preparing the marketing: Yeah . marketing: you didn't have the whole whooshing thing , 'cause there wasn't time for that , so yeah . We could make some little user interface: But yeah , but  already just just preparing the slides before before the meeting , yeah . marketing: Are we supposed to say nice things about Jen now ? industrial designer: project manager: And presumably you don't you can say nasty things as well . project manager: Did anyone feel that they were getting sort of covered up and not being able to say their bit ? user interface: To express them   industrial designer:  . user interface: pretty novel solution for a for a remote control really , all this flipping open thing and project manager: Yeah . marketing: I don't know , I don't go shopping for remote controls that often , maybe somebody's already though of it . user interface: Yeah , neither neither do I , project manager: user interface: but I've never seen anything and and none of my examples were was was like this , actually , so . industrial designer: project manager: user interface: Yeah maybe w maybe we could have a patent on this one . marketing: I think we'd like to think the ideas were new , project manager: Banana remote . Vibrate user interface: marketing: Yeah , but that would just come up with like other things really wouldn't it . project manager: well within budget , including a little what have we got ? One Euro left over for bits that we didn't foresee . Were there any was there anything that you found difficult , or anything that didn't go as smoothly as you'd hope ? user interface: And my main difficulty was the the time pressure . industrial designer: I thought that was good though , because if you're given too much time then you got nothing to do with your time and  yeah . project manager: We've got about five minutes left , but if we've finished , then we've finished . industrial designer: We certainly are , project manager: and you should never drag a meeting on just because you have extra time . marketing: project manager: It was very productive day and marketing: We could draw animals on the board again . industrial designer: user interface: Oh , you don't like anim marketing: It's just minging . project manager: Right , so we have to complete the final questionnaire and meeting summary when they send it . industrial designer: Was there a questionnaire already sent ? project manager: I don't know if it's already sent or not . project manager:  presumably I have to marketing: Do we have to go back into the other room or can we stay in here now ? project manager: I don't see why you can't stay here , really 