 so first of all , just to kind of make sure that we all know each other , marketing: marketing: And I'm Andrew and I'm  our marketing user interface:  I'm Craig and I'm User Interface .  so we're designing a new remote control and  Oh I have to record who's here actually . So that's David , Andrew and Craig , isn't it ? And you all arrived on time . project manager: Is that what everybody got ? industrial designer: Did you get the same thing ? user interface: Yeah . project manager: marketing:  charac favourite characteristics of it ? Is that right ? project manager: Yeah . marketing: right , well basically  high priority for any animal for me is that they be willing to take a lot of physical affection from their family . project manager: industrial designer: user interface: Then they're small cute and furry , and  when planet of the apes becomes real , I'm gonna be up there with them . project manager: You can take as long over this as you like , because we haven't got an awful lot to discuss . industrial designer: project manager: Ok oh we do we do user interface: project manager: Don't feel like you're in a rush , anyway .  , well anyway , I don't know , it's just the first animal I can think off the top of my head . project manager: Do you ? user interface: project manager: Oh that's very good of you . marketing: industrial designer: project manager:  he's very friendly and cheery and always pleased to see you , and very kind of affectionate and   and he's quite quite wee as well so you know he can doesn't take up too much space . marketing: project manager:  and  And he does a funny thing where he chases his tail as well , industrial designer: project manager: which is quite amusing , so marketing: Is he aware that th it's his own cha tail he's chasing ? project manager: It is . He only does it after he's had his dinner marketing: project manager: and  he'll just all of a sudden just get up and start chasing his tail 'round the living room . project manager: Yeah , so  marketing: Probably when he was little he got lots of attention for doing it and has forever been conditioned .  so according to the brief  we're gonna be selling this remote control for twenty five Euro ,  and we're aiming to make fifty million Euro . And  we don't want it to cost any more than  twelve fifty Euros , so fifty percent of the selling price . project manager: because it's probably up to the the  the retailer to  sell it for whatever price they want . project manager:  do you think the fact that it's going to be sold internationally will have a bearing on how we design it at all ? marketing: Yes . marketing: Well right away I'm wondering if there's  th th  , like with D_V_D_ players , if there are zones . industrial designer: It does make sense from maybe the design point of view 'cause you have more complicated characters like European languages , then you need more buttons . I'm thinking the price might might appeal to a certain market in one region , whereas in another it'll be different , so project manager: What , just like in terms of like the wealth of the country ? marketing: Just a chara just a characteristic of the project manager: Like how much money people have to spend on things like ? marketing: Just Or just like , basic product podi positioning , the twenty five Euro remote control might be a big hit in London , might not be such a big hit in Greece , who knows , project manager: Aye , I see what you mean , yeah . marketing: Right away I'm making some kind of assumptions about what what information we're given here , project manager:  . marketing: thinking , 'kay trendy probably means something other than just basic , project manager: Yeah .  so I'm wondering right away , is selling twenty five Euros , is that sort of the thi is this gonna to be like the premium product kinda thing or project manager: Yeah , yeah . project manager: Well twenty five Euro ,  that's  that's about like eighteen pounds or something , isn't it ? Or no , is it as much as that ? marketing: project manager: I dunno , I've never bought a remote control , so I don't know how how good a remote control that would get you . project manager: But yeah , I suppose it has to look kind of cool and gimmicky .  well d Does anybody have anything to add to  to the finance issue at all ? Thin marketing: Do we have any other background information on like how that compares to other project manager: No , actually . That would be useful , though , marketing: other project manager: wouldn't it , if you knew like what your money would get you now . Yeah , interesting thing about discussing  production of a remote control for me is that l as you point out , I just don't think of remote controls as somethin something people consciously assess in their purchasing habits . marketing: Like so sort of like how do you I  one one way of looking at it would be , well the people producing television sets , maybe they have to buy remote controls . Or another way is maybe people who have T_V_ sets are really fed up with their remote control and they really want a better one or something . user interface: I know  My parents went out and bought  remote controls because  they got fed up of having four or five different remote controls for each things the house . marketing: Okay so Right , so in function one of the priorities might be to combine as many uses project manager: Yeah . Right , so do you think that should be like a main design aim of our remote control d you know , marketing: I think so . project manager: do your your satellite and your regular telly and your V_C_R_ and everything ? marketing: Yeah , yeah . Well like  , maybe what we could use is a sort of like a example of a successful other piece technology is palm palm pilots . They're gone from being just like little sort of scribble boards to cameras , M_P_ three players , telephones , project manager: So , like , I wonder if we might add something new to the to the remote control market , project manager: Yeah . marketing: such as the lighting in your house , or  project manager: Or even like , you know , notes about  what you wanna watch . Like you might put in there oh I want to watch such and such and look a marketing: Yeah , yeah . Like , p personally for me , at home I've I've combined the  the audio video of my television set and my D_V_D_ player and my C_D_ player . marketing: So it's sort of ironic that that then they're in there  you know , the sound and everything it's just one system . project manager:  okay ,  I'd wel we're gonna have to wrap up pretty quickly in the next couple of minutes .  so anything else anybody wants to add about what they don't like about remote controls they've used , what they would really like to be part of this new one at all ? industrial designer: And you keep losing them . industrial designer:  it's usually quite small , or when you want it right , it slipped behind the couch marketing: project manager: W You get those ones where you can , if you like , whistle or make a really high pitched noise they beep . project manager: There  is that something we'd want to include , do you think ? marketing: project manager: Dunno . Actually had a cable between it and the T_V_ project manager: marketing: and big like buttons that sort of like , like on a blender or something . marketing: And  , you know , when I think about what they are now , it's better , but actually it's still kind of , I dunno , like a massive junky thing on the table . marketing: 'Cause it could b it could it could be that f it could be that functionally that doesn't make it any better , but that just the appeal of of not having project manager: It looks better . marketing: You know , these days there's a r pe things in people's homes are becoming more and more like chic , you know . project manager: Right , well  so just to wrap up the next meeting's gonna be in thirty minutes .  so inbetween now and then ,  as the industrial designer , you're gonna be working on you know the actual working design of it industrial designer: Yep .  for user interface , technical functions , I guess that's you know like what we've been talking about , what it'll actually do .  and  marketing executive , you'll be just thinking about what it actually what , you know , what requirements it has to has to fulfil and you'll all get instructions emailed to you , I guess . marketing: project manager: Yeah , so it's th the functional design stage is next , I guess . Before we wrap up , just to make sure we're all on the same page here , project manager: marketing: do we We were given sort of an example of a coffee machine or something , project manager: -huh , yeah . marketing: right ? Well ,  are we at ma right now on the assumption that our television remote control may have features which go beyond the television ? Or are we keeping sort of like a a design commitment to television features ? project manager: Th Okay , well just very quickly marketing: I I don't know . project manager:  you probably want some kind of unique selling point of it , so  , you know marketing: Okay . project manager: Right , okay , we'll that's that's the end of the meeting , then 