project manager: If you leave them on the whole time you get to look like a noodle the whole time . project manager: standard chip ,  'cause it can come in various different sizes , it wasn't   gonna be a problem factor .  and to try and incorporate voice recognition software into our design until we can find out more about the cost of things like that . user interface: Me and William worked on a prototype , and I think William is going to make a p presentation on that . Though do you do you wanna do you wanna sh do you wanna hold it user interface: I can hold it like project manager: Make sure the camera's user interface: Yeah , industrial designer: and I'll I'll show you the presentation . user interface: so industrial designer: Can I just nick your project manager: Yes , yes you can . user interface: Oh , where are the hinges ? project manager: industrial designer: Okay , so project manager: Right . industrial designer: And we'll first look at the exterior of what we've  come up with over there . You able to look ? industrial designer: It's gonna have a a plastic body  with a sort of standard colour , either we're thinking some something fairly neutral like a a white or a light blue or something . industrial designer:  which there'd be sort of a wide choice they would be attached , but we can we can come up with that . industrial designer:  the  wide choice of colours and sort of patterns , so you've got you've got a lot of customisation with it . industrial designer: and  the  the top L_C_D_ screen that you can see that would b would be sort of  how do you say , it's yeah yeah , it would be sort of inset into the into the top user interface: The black and white touch screen wherein people can project manager:  . user interface: industrial designer: And working on the inside we've  already said d decided on the kinetic batteries , which actually , thinking about it now , could y could also probably attach to the flipping open and shut as well , so that you could probably get a bit of project manager: So put it in the top section rather than the bottom sections , industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer:  we decided that  the voice recognition system , it did actually say on the email that they were sort of coming in and they were fairly easy to get a-hold of , so we presumed that they'd also be quite cheap . So you'd have something like where you'd shout out , where where is the remote and it'll shout back , I'm here , or something . industrial designer:  yeah , if it was going like I d well tha that could be something for next time , maybe .  the standard , there's be a standard transmission with the T_V_ using using all the standard chips that we've talked about . industrial designer:  it would it would have obviously 'cause it's split over two two different layers , it would need two separate P_C_B_s , so it would be joined at the hinge through some sort of cabling . And  because , obviously , all T_V_s use this , the same infrared medium , we'd just be using using the same thing to transmit the data . And the infrared  sender would be on the on one of the bot the bottom layer , just at the front of the we haven't I don't think we actually put it on . It's still pointing , industrial designer: So when you've actually got it open , it would be facing the T_V_ . The top screen , as we said , is would be an inset  black and white L_C_D_ s touch screen user interface: This one right here . industrial designer: which yeah would  have all of all of the the available functions for for the remote on it ,  whereas the bot the bottom screen would just contain the standard buttons , like the vo volume up and down , channel up and down , power on and off , and  things to that effect . industrial designer: And now we've we also decided on the inside , we could possibly either have  some some kind of sort of bezzled  logo on it , or something inset , or maybe an engraving of the logo on the top . user interface: Which is project manager: But not interfering with the outside kind of look of the product industrial designer: No d not not actually . No , not  interfering with l the whole look of the the product when it's  on the thing . industrial designer: And finally that's how we put the fashion back into electronics , project manager: Thank you very much . marketing: This stage of the evaluation is really for us as a team to evaluate if we have now got a product specification and prototype design that meets the the criteria that we got from our market research . Now , the collection of the criteria , as we saw in our previous meeting , was based on the user requirements and trends found in the marketing reports and marketing strategy of our company . So it's what we've discussed in the last meeting , are we actually meeting those trends and requirements ? Now the findings that we came up with , just a recap , are here . The criteria that we want in this remote control are a fancy look and feel , technological innovation , it should be easy to use , it should incorporate current fashion trends , and those the two main ones , they were the spongy texture and the fruit and vegetable strong design colours . marketing: The design should minimise R_S_I_ and be easy to locate and we were still   slightly ambivalent as to whether to use voice recognition there , though that did seem to be the favoured strategy , but there was also , on the sideline , the though of maybe having a beeper function . Okay , so we can come back to that slide , if you don't have a note of those . I'll just show you how we're going to evaluate our own feedback to this , to what we have so far . We look at each of those criteria that I've just mentioned , I'll call that slide back up , industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: Does that seem clear ? Any questions there ? user interface: Ah , it's perfect . industrial designer: marketing: we're going to look at these crite So user interface: Is it everybody is going to evaluate , or just the Market marketing: Yes , user interface: okay . industrial designer: marketing: we're going to come to w we'll discuss each one project manager: It will just be criteria one , two , three , four , five , six , or A_ , B_ , C_ , D_ , E_ , F_ to confuse it with the number rating . Actually , it might be an idea , if we each did give our own individual rating , and we could take an average at the end . So I'll just separate the ratings by obliques , and if we go one , two , three , four , we know who's who . industrial designer: Yeah , I'd  yeah I'd probably put it  two yeah , marketing: I'll just go this way . marketing: Adding those up , we've got a six and a five , eleven divided by four is what ?  two and three quarters , it that right . marketing: oh , for you ? You want your rating to be a two ? Is that what you're saying ? user interface:  in Yep , I just got marketing: Okay . user interface: marketing: So , I'll work out the average for that again at the end . It's a very slightly altered Okay , user interface: two point f marketing: and we're just waiting for your rating project manager: It's just two point five for that one . Easy to use ? Based on what you've said there , I would say a one , true . I should've said a two to make the arithmetic easy , shouldn't I ? user interface: industrial designer: marketing: We'll just put almost two , project manager: One point seven f five . marketing: it incorporates current fashion trends , now that's particularly in relation to our market research findings about the spongy texture to the exterior and the fruit and vegetable design colours . So I'm just thinking , before I give it my rating , you were limited in the use of materials for your prototype here . industrial designer: Yeah , that's marketing: Is this actually going to be the colours that you would use ? industrial designer: No , no , the the base colour was  white or or like or l sort of a light blue , user interface: White . industrial designer: but the changeable fa faces would  allow you to get any basically any one of a number of colours that  th it's full sort of customised . user interface: Any marketing: So we could use any strong fruit and veg colours and that's what we're intending to do . industrial designer: No , no , 'cause th that's that's the the spongy feel would be in the rubber that you put round it , that otherwise it's just sort of hard plastic . marketing: We've we've discussed it , we haven't really come up with anything that we felt could feasibly reduce that . We've talked about pointers , but the very use of a remote control , if you're someone who's zapping , who's sitting like that , and we found so many people did , how do you minimise that on such a small device ? industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: Well the type of button that we're gonna use in the bottom half , the material , minimises R_S_I_ industrial designer: It's meant to be . project manager: maybe because it's slightl industrial designer: project manager: with the size that we've got it's quite small , industrial designer: project manager: but with the amount of stuff we're putting on it isn't that much . project manager: So maybe because there's more space , it's not kind of moving around trying to hit accurately the buttons in between . Yeah , I'd  I'd f I'd go for a five , actually , marketing: A five , okay . marketing: Twenty one is that twenty one ? user interface: marketing: So that's four point two five . Now we talked about voice recognition , we talked about a beeper , have we really industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: have the designers come to any dec real decision on that ? industrial designer: Yeah , it was it was  a voice voice recognition , user interface: Voice r recognition . And are we happy with the costs on that ? That is going to be feasible , cost-wise . I'd go for a I ca we can adjust the volume on that , just as we could volume on T_V_ . So if sombody's in the other room or if T_V_s in different rooms , or . industrial designer:  I think it would r I think it would probably be a a stand it would be a stand project manager: A standard . project manager: And if you didn't hear it in the room that you were standing in , then you'd realise that it wasn't in that room , you'd go into another room . industrial designer: I do realise that we might be being fairly biased , 'cause it is our product , project manager: marketing: So , user interface: industrial designer: but marketing: how do we feel about this ? industrial designer: marketing: We've got our our we've got the highest rating of meeting the specifications that is definitely true for two of the  six criteria there . The lowest rating we've got , which is really n it's not terribly low , i it's close around neutral is for  the minimisation of repetitive strain injury . Do we feel on the basis of tha of these evaluation findings that we can go ahead and now produce this as a prototype and market it , or do we have to make further modifications ? project manager: I don't think so . industrial designer: W I thin yeah , I think marketing: We happy to go ahead ? project manager: I think we yeah . I think for most of those ratings that it's high enough at the upper end of the scale for us to go ahead with that , and I really doubt if on the basis of current technology and our current capabilities , we could actually do much more to minimise that . Is there anything you would like to to ask me about the findings before I sum up ? project manager: Don't think so . user interface: You want me to b unplug that ? industrial designer: user interface: That's all . project manager: Now I presume that the screen will go blank , industrial designer: project manager: that  Okay . Right , what's happening with the electronics ? industrial designer: It was a regular chip on print user interface: Chip on print . industrial designer: Oh , no , no , no , the  Yeah , it's you you've put in three for the number of kinetic cells , there should just be one . In the top , it's the number project manager: Oh , right , industrial designer: of c yeah . industrial designer: Yeah , project manager: So , would there be two ? industrial designer: and yeah , just a no , one reg v  project manager: One chip . project manager: So what's a single curve then ? industrial designer: Yeah , I'd say I'd say it was w marketing: It would just be a flat bottom with one curve . industrial designer: yeah , I think I think it's user interface: Single-cu project manager: So just one double industrial designer: One double-curved . industrial designer: no , 'cause one yeah , one's double-curved , and then the other one's marketing: The other curves at the sides , but it's slightly flattened at the bottom so it doesn't roll over . user interface: No I think rubber , since it's being used just as a casing , project manager:  user interface: we can put point five . project manager: Do you think ? user interface: Yeah , I think it allows the point five , yeah . marketing: What does it mean if you put point five for that ? user interface: It means we are not using a lot of rubber actually . project manager: we're not actually using plastic in the case , are we ? industrial designer: No , no , that's it's as an extra . industrial designer: So that shouldn't that shouldn't be actually on there , because that's not incorporated in the cost of the remote you get . marketing: But it is gonna be part of the total cost , and there's nowhere else we can we can put that in , is there ? industrial designer: marketing: There's nowhere else we can code for the the rubber used in the casing . So do we not have to account for it in the cost somewhere there ? project manager: Okay , we'll just put it in as we'll put in as half . project manager: Or sh we should just put it in as one , because the plastic is zero anyway . Okay , special colour , do we need that ? marketing: Might do , if we go for some of the more exotic aubergines and such like colours . project manager: Buttons industrial designer: And buttons marketing: S user interface: I think we could change the battery also . marketing: Has that not made any d if you click off that square now , has that not made any difference ? project manager: Has that not gone up ? industrial designer: Well yes . marketing: So is is uncurved completely and just actually making the rubber case the curved thing , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: We haven't been dealin we haven't been dealing with dollars though , marketing: Is there anything on the menu project manager: I think marketing: No . If we moved away from our much loved idea of a kinetic battery and just went with the standard batteries , would that make a huge difference ? user interface: And going to a regular bat Yeah . The biggest one would be taking away if you took away user interface: What I feel is , customers never said anything about the battery . user interface: But shape and colours , that's something we shouldn't comprimi marketing: And people are used to buying batteries , industrial designer: If if you take away the voice , marketing: they're not gonna say I'm not getting this , 'cause I've got to buy a battery for a remote control . industrial designer: I I do I don't like to say it , but if you take away the voice recognition , then you've got it . marketing: Should we see what difference it makes ? project manager: Where's the industrial designer: Yeah i yeah . project manager: where's the voice recognition ? industrial designer: No 'cause it's samples sens sample speaker .  We can do it some other way , user interface: project manager: we can do it doesn't have to be voice recognition . We could do the voice recognition for , you know , business class or something , you know , like an upgraded version . industrial designer: But they but  in I don't see why we have to sell it for twenty five Euros now , because they w they were saying they were quite willing to pay more for better product . marketing: But we're still working to  head o project manager: So should we just change the design specification then ? user interface: Make it costly . If we if we're working to head office specifications as this is what this project team's working for , we can put in our recommendations for what we've we've found and what we the consensus that we've come to as a result of the meetings . industrial designer: We c we could s marketing: But we need to work to that specification to start with . industrial designer: Yeah , we could say marketing: And I think the voice recognition sounds wonderful , but our object is so distinctive that that in itself is gonna make it easier to locate as a f you know in a first instance .  as you say , we can offer the voice recognition initially to business class customers project manager: Okay , we can make the price fit , industrial designer: Yeah , I s project manager: and then say if we'd had our budget , we would've had this , industrial designer: And then say we recommend marketing:  . project manager: Right , okay , so marketing: So if we take voice recognition out industrial designer: That'll do it . industrial designer: Is it twelve point fif was it twelve point fifty ? user interface: Two five . project manager: Yeah well two , twelve point two five times two is twenty five , marketing: Right . Are they really going to quibble about ten P_ ? Or point zero one of a Euro ? user interface: It's twelve point five maybe , then . So half of the price would be project manager: I think the agenda one was where the  price was , wasn't it ? No . project manager: is that  got us covered for the electronics then ? We don't need something else to take that place ? industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: 'Cause that that was just a bought-on extra , you could just take that out and that would be fine , yeah . user interface: Except voice recognition , everything is project manager: Right , so we've done that . project manager: Because we've got decisions that we would have made that we weren't didn't feel able to make . project manager:  in the sense that  did you feel like a team ? Or did you feel like  autonomy ? industrial designer: Yeah , I'd say , as a team . marketing: And I've certainly felt heard , listened to in that in relevant areas we've been able to , you know , give and take and adjust our remit where necessary . How did you find it ? industrial designer: Yeah , no , I thought it it went really well and I yeah , I I feel that everyone was listened to and all the points that were raised seem to have been sorted out , although we didn't quite make the voice recognition in there , but that's that's good . industrial designer: I think it would have made it into the final product if it was actually if if if we'd seen the marketing before the initial specification was put out , I think maybe it would've come out a d little different , project manager: Yeah . project manager: I liked the fact that we could say an idea and it'd be suggested that that wasn't the best idea , but no one felt like shot down , user interface: Yeah . project manager: you know , y it didn't matter it saying what you thought , because if it wasn't something that was that relevant , then it didn't matter , 'cause it was just another idea in the field . marketing: user interface: I think that was the best part project manager:   I'm still not caught up . user interface: of the industrial designer: project manager: But that's nothing to do with the teamwork at all .  marketing: industrial designer: marketing: Maybe we should think of branching out into children's toys and fake mobile phones as a side line .  means , whiteboard , digital pens , etcetera , what does that mean ? Any ideas ? user interface: industrial designer: Discuss which ones marketing: How do we evaluate the materials we had for communicating and sharing information ? industrial designer: yeah . marketing: Could it've been better , was it adequate ? industrial designer: Yeah , I think I think we probably woulda used the outer email system more , had we actually had had more time and if we'd been separated more . project manager: Yeah , 'cause we could just sort of say , sorry what did you say about that or what do you think about that , rather than having to email it , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: Yeah , I think it's new ideas in general , marketing: It's really borrowing from other areas , it's , you know , bringing things from other areas in , project manager: rather than industrial designer: Yeah . Well user interface: Yeah , it's project manager: they have to come from somewhere , don't they ? marketing: Absolutely , yeah . user interface: The thing is project manager: And as sh as w sorry , user interface: Yep , sorry , project manager: you go . project manager:  as was shown by your presentation with all of the other controls , remote controls , no one's thought about it particularly . project manager:  they're slightly different , so if someone's been shut in the room and said make ours a bit different from everyone else's , 'cause it's w something we should think about , marketing: They're just like we've got a D_V_D_ player , does anyone remember the remote control ? Can't you get the one that we used for the last one ? Yeah , just jazz it up a bit . industrial designer: because normally , the remote control isn't the product which they're trying to ship . They're trying to ship the D_V_D_ player , the video player , the T_V_ . project manager: But then when it everything is really smart , and you've just got this big chunk of black thing sitting on your coffee table , it doesn't go , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager:  if you could have something that's a proper funky thing , a funky item that's individual , individual to you , industrial designer: No . project manager:  they could even go into  you go in with an idea and they design it on Photoshop and then they just get it printed on the plastic , you would pray industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: you would pay a lot extra , because it's individually being a plastic was being made for you . user interface: Surprising to me is like  people give a lot of attention to modifying mobile phones , like a real want to see a new launch or something like that . Like Sarah was telling , everything's marketing: I think it's really good that this has been very market research based , user interface: Right . marketing: because just going back to mobile phones ,  this is the first change in remote control devices that I can really , you know , say is is obvious and visible . We see it in mobile phones a lot , and tha that's where we've borrowed a lot of our ide our ideas from . marketing: I see people wanting a model of the phone they were really happy with , and they can't get it anymore project manager: Yeah . marketing: and it's innovation for innovation's sake , and I think it's wonderful our company's so R_ and D_ based . project manager: And you can't get you've got your handset that works fine , but you can't get the battery anymore for that type of phone , marketing:  . user interface: industrial designer: project manager:  our costs are below budget with recommendations that they the budget be increased , but I think I don't know , d what do you think ? Do you think that's takes into account  overheads like us being well paid kind of a thing ? And the heating for the building , do you think our budget includes everything , all the costs that are going out ? user interface: industrial designer: Well . project manager: So it looks well it looks like it's gonna be fifty percent profit , you've still got all of the overheads to come out of that . project manager: So maybe increasing it , you would also have to increase the price that it's sold at . project manager: But I think but you were saying that that's quite industrial designer: Yeah , I think yeah I don't from the market research . marketing: and I think there'll have to be another project team or a new project for us to look at at those kind of things . I don't think that's something we have to look at and find a way of raising the cash for . Yeah , it was marketing: I think we've done very well to get within budget project manager:  . Maybe they are gonna steal our ideas project manager: Maybe someone'll r run down and patent it . project manager: Oh , so we've got about fifty minutes to catch up with everything that I fell behind with , industrial designer: In your project manager: so I'll be delegating in my  role as Project Supervisor , industrial designer: yeah . project manager: I think I've got minutes for two of the meeting and the last thingy . industrial designer: Was that not the questionnaire for the how you felt you'd done in your thing ? marketing: Oh , right . marketing: But do we not sometimes evaluate in these meetings too ? industrial designer: Yeah , the the s marketing: Yeah 