First we need to determine the user requirements and the question that we can ask ourselves is what needs and desires are to be fulfilled by this remote control . And then we're going to determine the technical functions , what is the effect of the apparatus , what actually is it supposed to do , what do people pick up the remote and use it for . And then lastly we're going to determine its working design , how exactly will it perform its functions , that's the whole technical side of 'Kay I'll just give you a minute , 'cause it looks like you're making some notes . user interface: project manager: So what I wanna do right now is hear from all three of you , on your research that you just did .  do you have a PowerPoint or no ? user interface: Yeah , it's in the should be in the m Project . marketing: Do you want us to do our PowerPoints now or user interface: You know you could you could do it yourself actually .  well , the function of a remote control , as what  we've been informed , is basically to send messages to the television set , for example , switch it on , switch it off , go to this channel , go to channel nine , turn the volume up , etcetera .  some of the considerations is just  for example the what it needs to include it's the numbers , you know , zero to nine , so you can move to a channel , the power button on slash off , the channel going up and down , volume going up and down , and then mute , a mute function . And then functions for V_H_S_ , D_V_D_ , for example , play , rewind , fast-forward , stop , pause , enter . And then other menus for D_V_ as well as T_V_ , whether that means like  we can go and decide the brightness of the screen , things like that , all the more complicated functions of menus . project manager: user interface: And we can decide if that's what we want ,  if we want to include that on the remote , if that's something that would stay on the T_V_ itself , for example .  and you can see on the left , it's got a lot more buttons , project manager: user interface: and I don't know if you can read it , but it says , step , go to , freeze ,  slow , repeat , program , mute , and so those are some of the buttons and so it gives you an idea of s one example . And then on the right , it's a lot more simpler , it's got volume , it's got the play the like circle set , which is play , rewind , but it's also what is fast-forward is also like next on a menu . user interface: And you have a mute button and then the numbers and the eject , and the power button . user interface: And then lastly , it's just the questions that we want to consider like what functions do we want it to include , and how simple , complex it should be ? And what functions it needs to complete .  , what are needed to complete insulation process , 'cause , you know , that's something that also has to be considered and it's gonna be hopefully a one-time thing , when you set it up it should be set to go , but we have to include the functions that can allow it to set up i in the first place . Who would like to  follow that one up ? Now , that we've discussed marketing: I can go . marketing: Yes , okay so we tested a hundred subjects in our lab , and we just we watched them and we also made them fill out a questionnaire , and we found that the users are not typically happy with current remote controls . Eighty percent want they've are willing to spend more , which is good news for us  if we make it look fancier , and basically w we just need something that really  there's some other points up there , but they it needs to be snazzy and it but yet simple . So user interface: And that meaning what ? marketing: Like They like I guess use the buttons a lot . project manager: What do you mean by  the current remote controls do not match well with the operating behaviour of the user , like they have to press the buttons . marketing: whereas like the engineering she showed that the engineering ones are more complex project manager: Oh , right . marketing: and users don't really need all of the buttons that are contained on there , because they only use ten percent of the buttons really . And so people say that they typically lose it , as you yourself know , because you probably lose your remote control all the time , project manager:  . marketing: and they we need something simple , because most people , well thirty four percent say that it's just too much time to learn how to use a new one , and we don't want to go we don't want to vary too far from the normal standard remote , user interface: S marketing: but  they do need to be able to identify it , and R_S_I_ , I'm not very sure what that is . project manager: user interface: Wait , is that like your ergonomics like your hand movements or something ? marketing: Sh project manager: Could be , yeah . industrial designer: Do we really need t to provide more information on what R_S_I_ is ? user interface: Like project manager: Oh . marketing:  yeah , that's what my web site said , I user interface: Channel , volume , power . user interface: It's like if you're holding it marketing: I think we're supposed to know it as remote control experts . marketing: But also s so the channel , the volume and the power buttons are the most important on our company website you can find like the specific statistics concerning to how much each button is used , but those are the definitely the top ones . And so personally I think that we need a modern eye-catching design , but it it really needs to be simple . So saying from y your slide , your presentation , the engineering versus the user-specified remotes , I think that we should go with something that's more user-friendly . marketing: Where the engineering ones , the boxes , tend to make it look more complicated than it really is .  the functionality of the product really needs to be considered as to like what type of buttons do we really need on it . And it needs to be open to a wide range of consumers , so even though we need a small number of buttons , we also need to take in like are most people going to be using it for a D_V_D_ player , a TiVo , what what exactly are we using it for , as well as the age range . user interface: marketing: And also we found our team found that speech recognition is it's like an up-and-coming thing they really consumers are really interested in it , and since our findings found that people are willing to pay more money for a remote for it to be more high-class we could consider it . project manager: And so just to just to clarify by speech recognition you mean they would say , channel five , and the thing would go to channel five ? marketing: I guess so , yeah . marketing: Yeah , I guess we can interpret it like , we can just try out different types of speech recognition within our remote programme . project manager: Didn't they  didn't our rival companies manufacture a remote that you would press the button on the T_V_ and it would the remote would beep so if you have lost it user interface: It's kinda like what the remote phone used to do . Are we ready for our last presentation , Amber ? industrial designer: Yeah , I'm just trying to move it .  I didn't get a chance to complete this one , 'cause some of the tools that I was given were frustrating . industrial designer:  okay , so method method of our design , I think I just start listing th some of the things that we actually need to put into this . industrial designer: We need a power source , we're gonna need a smart chip if we're gonna make it multi-functional . user interface: marketing: What exactly is a smart chip ? industrial designer: Usually a smart chip is just a chip that's been programmed and designed so that it can complete a fair range of functions . user interface: Well , how much extra would the additional chip be ? Is that gonna push us over our production costs ? industrial designer: I wouldn't think so , 'cause we could probably get it from like , in bulk , from a a newer company . user interface: industrial designer:  power source , I figured , batteries , 'cause they're easily available . user interface: industrial designer:  a large on-off button , demographically we're moving towards an older generation of people , so a large on-off button would probably be good . industrial designer: Selection button for various entertainment devices , so you want something that will permit you to select the D_V_D_ player or the T_V_ or the stereo system .  smart chip that perverts  that permits , sorry , universal application again , something that'll allow us to skip over between devices , and that's kinda it . We're gonna have a switch obviously between the power source and the rest of it , and you're gonna need the switch .  extra bulb could just be for flashiness ,  subcomponent which would be like a way of diverting the power to different parts of the the device .  the chip and of course the infra-red bulb , so it can communicate with the various devices that it needs to talk to . marketing: So what exactly we are looking at , is this like the front of the remote ? industrial designer: This is just like a rough schematic . project manager: So the red would be the front of the remote though , right ? marketing: Oh okay . user interface: Yeah , that's gonna be what's communicating with the T_V_ , but the other bulb , I think , is good to just to indicate , I'm doing something , it's sort of like a reassurance . project manager: The l the light up kind of industrial designer: Yeah , so you don't have to stare at that infra-red , marketing: Like that we know the battery's working . industrial designer: 'cause you know when the battery starts dying in your remote currently , you have to actually stare at that bulb and go , okay , when I push this button , is it working ? project manager:  . project manager: Anything you wanna add for personal preferences though , you f you said already that we needed a large on-off button , you think . Anything else ? industrial designer: I think that that's a good idea , because you know that's one of the most important buttons . user interface: Well , should it be larger buttons in general , you know like  the examples that I had , they were swi quite small . So should we try and go for something that has l larger buttons ? marketing: I think we should . I think we should definitely go with buttons that don't look like a normal remote , 'cause most remotes have small square buttons , project manager:  . Okay , let's talk about all of our We'll come to decision later about all the components that we need to include , let's  wrap up this one , and I'm gonna go back to my PowerPoint , 'cause we need to discuss the new project requirements which you might've already seen flashed up on the screen a bit earlier . And we th need to promote our company more , so we need to somehow include our colour and our company slogan on the remote . project manager: in States we don't have it , but  it's like they just have this channel where just has news and weather , kind of sports , user interface: I know . marketing: What is it ? user interface: project manager: it's very  bland looking , it's just text on the screen , user interface: Yeah , project manager: not even user interface: it's like black , black and white kind of project manager: Yeah , just black with just text . industrial designer: You can also get the kind of the T_V_ guide so user interface: It'll give you the sports . marketing: Wait , is it like the Weather Channel where it's got like the ticker running on the bottom or something ? project manager: Kind of . project manager: So anyway user interface: You can pick sports , you can pick the news , you entertainment , industrial designer: Seemingly . marketing: So it's like a separate channel from like what you're watching ? project manager: Right . project manager: Nobody needs to go to the teletext channel to check the news , and we have twenty four hour news channels now too , so Those are our new product requirements . industrial designer: So , do we have to include the company colour within that ? project manager: Yes . project manager: What we're going to do right now is come to some decisions , definitive that we can all agree on , about  the target group and the functions and just definite things that we need to do and then we'll close up the meeting . So our target group is You mentioned  older people ? Would it just be universal for everyone , you think ? user interface: project manager: Because I think even if something has large buttons , as long as they are not childishly large , like even technically user interface: It's gonna make it nicer .  they want something user-friendly , so industrial designer:  well , even if we kept the regular standard size of remote , if we reduced the buttons down to the ones that people are saying that they use the most often and a couple extra , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: 'cause they're saying they only use ten per cent of them , project manager: Yeah . project manager: Okay , so we want  for our target group would we say , young and old , all age ranges , all  , not kids obviously , right ? Or kids ? marketing: No , kids need to know how to use a remote , I would think . project manager: Okay , so we're going to go anywhere from kids to adult in the age range marketing: Yeah , I think we need it all . project manager:  what about technic technical  specifications , like how how technically literate are these people who are going to be using our remote ? industrial designer: marketing:  I would say we should say dumber than the average person . industrial designer: how 'bout little to no , because there is no way that you are gonna be able to make it no . And we also need to determine the specific functions of this , just to get it all out on paper . So we said it needs to send messages to the T_V_ , needs to change the channel , turn on and off , just basic simple stuff like this . And we wanna keep  I'll make a note here that we wanna keep the number of buttons down . industrial designer: Do we want this thing to be able to be found easily ? user interface: project manager: I think so . user interface: project manager: A finding kind of device or industrial designer: And marketing: I need we we need a like homing device . industrial designer: like if this is gonna get lost underneath the coach , how are we going to accommodate the quick ability to find it ? user interface: Oh right yeah okay . industrial designer: What if we gave it a charger ? And on the charger , just like a phone , like you get a portable phone and it's got a charger , and if you d leave your phone somewhere , you push the button to find it , and it finds th the phone beeps for you . marketing: Do you think people'll really go for that though ? industrial designer: It's useful for the remote phone . project manager: Would that add to our costs at all , I wonder ? marketing: I would think so , because you'd have to develop a base . user interface: Well , if you have the base , you could start putting in a charger and then you have a different kind of battery . Is it going to have a charger , or is it going to be run strictly off batteries ? And we also need to deal with the issue you mentioned of speech recognition , if we want that . user interface: Well , then we could marketing: Do w user interface: If we have the speech recognition then we can start aiming at a like another kind of more handicapped disabled  demo demographic . marketing: Well , th there's the people who desire speech recognition , there's the different demog demographics have different desires , I don't know if you guys ge project manager: You could  we could hook it up . marketing: It wouldn't copy onto the the thing 'cause it's black , project manager: Oh . marketing: They're the ones that get addicted to soap operas and industrial designer: project manager: And if and if we introduced it when they're this age , they're going to probably always buy a remote that has user interface: Well marketing: just sitcoms and stuff . user interface: Well , then then do you put the voice recognition do you put the r like receiver on the actual television , in the base , or in the actual remote , marketing: So user interface: 'cause then you've already got remote in your hand , why you just gonna speak to the remote , project manager: Right . user interface: whereas if you just speak in general and you don't have to have the remote in your hand and like talk at it . Well , do we wanna include the numbers like zero through nine ? Can we conceive of leaving them out ? project manager:  . marketing: Wait , on the remote itself ? project manager: user interface: Yeah , like you have one , two , three , four , five , six , seven , eight , nine , zero . user interface: Well , I don't know , if you can like well project manager: Unless you could say the channel . user interface: I don't know , if there's just a way of leaving them out ? industrial designer: I think people would find that too foreign . project manager: And also remember that in this day in age we need , you know , like a hundred button , too . marketing: You definitely need project manager: I used to have a remote that did not even go up past like fifty . So I couldn't whenever I got cable , I had to get a new T_V_ . I guess , we're gonna discuss the project financing later , making sure that we can fit all of the stuff that we want to on our budget . industrial designer: Yeah , 'cause I don't have any material pricing information available to me at the moment , so project manager: 'Kay . user interface: And how do we marketing: I feel like a ye I feel like a yellow one would be too garish . project manager: We could just have the logo in yellow , user interface: Can't make it entirely project manager: or maybe a yellow light for the keys . If you have this sort of strip kind of down at the bottom the base of it , just like yellow with the R_R_ . So we've simplified , we don't need all those  play , fast-forward , rewind , user interface: Right , yeah . project manager: So we've pretty much pared it down to on-off , volume , mute , channel up and down ,  the numbers Yeah . project manager:  can we go back to I'm gonna look really quickly back at those user interface: Two examples . project manager: Which one is yours , technical functions or functional requirement ? user interface: Oh , it's a Yeah . marketing: Yeah , audi audio settings and screen settings , we need those like audio settings mono , stereo , pitch , screen settings like brightness , colour , or do we just want that accessed accessed from the television itself ? project manager: The T_V_ .  how often does the average user need to do that kind of stuff ? user interface: Well , the other option is sort of like down at the bottom , like farther away , you just have this sort of box inset where it's like the buttons that you don't use as much , but occasionally you will use . user interface: and so it's like marketing: Yeah , 'cause we need to we definitely need to have buttons for like sub-titles and things like that . It's 'cause the foreign film market is expanding and stuff , and like on television like I know f k living in Los Angeles it's tons of Spanish network television if it has English sub-titles it's definitely helpful . project manager: Couldn't we do that all through one button , something , a menu button , that pops up with a menu on the T_V_ that says , you know , audio , video , whatever , language , user interface: I don't well , I don't know . user interface: Well , that could be No you could just double up with like the channel or the volume buttons . marketing: Such as , yeah , the one the one over there on the left the engineering centred one . project manager: That one ? user interface: So we just have it like add a menu button then for the various things needed , project manager: Right . user interface: including v voice recognition if we have any like settings for voice recognition now project manager: In the middle perhaps . Anybody have anything else they'd like to bring up in this meeting ? industrial designer: I had something , but I forgot . After this meeting we're gonna be sent a questionnaire and summary again which we need to reply to that e-mail .  I'm gonna put the minutes I put the minutes for the first meeting already in the project documents folder , if you'd like to review them . The I_D_ is going to work on the components concept ,  U_I_D_ the user interface concept , and you're going to do some trend watching . And if anybody has anything they would like to add ? No ? Okay , well , this meeting is officially over 