 hopefully this meeting I'll be doing a little bit less talking than I did last time 'cause this is when you get to show us what you've been doing individually .  I'll try and do that for the next meeting as well so if you check in there , there's a shared project documents folder . project manager: Is it best if I send you an email maybe , to let you know it's there ? user interface: Yes , I think so .  I'll act as secretary for this meeting and just take minutes as we go through , and then I'll send them to you after the meeting . The main the main focus of this meeting is your presentations that you've been preparing during the time , so we'll go through each of you one by one . I just sent user interface: Yeah , the last minute , yeah , project manager: at the last minute , I'm sorry about that , user interface: yeah . project manager:  and then we need to , by the end of the meeting come to some kind of decision on who our target group's going to be and what the functions of the remote control that's the the main goal is to come up with those two things , target group and functions of the remote control . So I would say industrial designer: You said  targ target groups , project manager: yeah ? industrial designer: what does that mean ? project manager: As  who it is that we're going to be trying to sell this thing to , user interface:  industrial designer:  okay , 'kay . industrial designer: So are project manager: So we need to yeah , we need to have a fairly defined group that that we want to focus on industrial designer: Okay .  so f from the project manager: Just before you start , to make it easier , would you three mind emailing me your presentations ? Once we you don't have to do it now but when once you go back , user interface: Okay , yeah , afterwards , yeah , okay . So n  with  with regard to the  working design of this   remote control  I've identified  a few basic  components of the remote and  se  from the design , functional design perspective  w I c we can now  know wha what exactly the components are and how how they work together with each other .  the identification of the components ,  and  since since I'm dealing only with the technical aspects , I would need feedback from the marketing person  and  from the user interface person . industrial designer: and  basically update and come up with a new design , so it's a cyclical process .  so basically  the as I told you the identification of how the remote control works and what are the various parts to it  and what are the different processes  and how the parts  communicate with each other .  okay , so e the mee email said that teletext is now outdated , so we need to do away with that functionality of the remote control .  also  the remote control should be used only for television , because incorporating other features  makes it more comp complex . How however , our our remote control would only be dealing  with the the use for television , in order to keep things simple .  also the management wants that  our design should be unique  it so it should incorporate  colour and the slogan  that our company  has it as its standard . The user interf interface communicates with the chip , so I'll basic go over to the Okay . So if  if this is our energy source and this is a cell ,  it communicates  it feeds energy into the into the chip , which basically finds out h  how how to do everything . So whe when the user presses a button , it feeds into the chip and the chip then generates a response and takes the response to an infrared terminal ,  which then so the output of the chip is an infrared bit code , which is then communicated to the remote site , which h has an infrared receiver .  so these are the essent so a all the functionality of the remote control , whatever new functions that we need to do ,  make the chip more complicated  and bigger , basically .  so i in my personal preferences  I'm hoping that we can ke keep the design as simple and clear as possible . And  also if we can incorporate  the latest features in our chip design , so that our   remote control does not become outdated soon and it's compatible with mot most  televisions . project manager: Do you have any  i idea about costs at this point ? industrial designer: No , I don't have any idea about what each component costs . 'Cause that's something to consider , I guess , if we're if we're using more advanced technology , it might increase the price . industrial designer: but  unfortunately I I do not have any data , so  I just identified the functional components for that . Are there any more questions , or shall we just skip straight to the next one and then we can discuss all of them together at the end ? user interface: I think we need like some general discussion at the end probably . Yeah , I think since since we were discussing some  design issues then I I I would like to continue project manager: Yes , shall shall we pull this up ? user interface: okay , yeah . project manager: Yeah , I thought those last minute things , they're gonna hit you the worst . project manager: It ta takes a little Oh , and have you user interface: There's just nothing . project manager: you need to then also press on yours , function F_ eight , user interface: Oh right , right , right ,  project manager: so the blue function key at the bottom and F_ eight . project manager: Now it's coming , industrial designer: It'll come up , it   no signal . user interface: No signal ? Why ? project manager: Maybe again ? industrial designer: Yeah yeah , it says something now , user interface: Oh . project manager: Oh , if you press if you press function and that again user interface: This is the problem , but project manager: there's there's usually three modes , one where it's only here , one where it's only there , and one where it's both . So I'm going to speak about technical functions design  just like some some first issues that came up .  'kay , so the method I was  adopting at this point , it's not  for the for the whole  period of the  all the project but it's just at th at this very moment . user interface:   my method was  to look at  other  remote controls ,  so mostly just by searching on the web and to see what  functionality they used . And then  after having got this inspiration and having compared what I found on the web  just to think about what the de what the user really needs and what  what the user might desire as additional  functionalities . user interface:  so the findings  were  that the main function of the remote control is is just sending messages to the television set , so this quite straightforward . And  w some of the main functions would be switching on , switching off ,  then the user would like to switch the channel  for example just m changing to the next channel to to flip through all all of the possible channels , or then   the other possibility would be that  she might just want to choose one particular channel , so we would need the numbers .   I als industrial designer: Sorry , cou could you go back for a second ? user interface: okay .   among the findings I found that m m most of the curr  presently available remote controls also include other  functionalities  in their design , like operating a V_C_R_ , but they don't seem to be able to deal with D_V_D_ players , but then there are surely there are many other functionali functions that could possibly be added to them , but according to the last minute update  actually  we do not want to have all this complicated functions added to our design . industrial designer: user interface: So my personal preferences would be  to keep the  the whole remote control small  just like the physical size . And then it must be easy to use , so it must follow some conventions  like whereabouts you find the on off button and maybe the colour tends to be red or something .  then yeah , the must-have buttons would be on off and then the channel numbers and then  the one that allows us to go to the next or the previous channel , and then volume has to be there . But then  other functionalities  could be just  there could be a menu button and you could change things on the screen then ,  for example brightness and  similar functions could be just  done through the menu . And yeah , the last question I had about whether we wanted to incorporate n  more functionalities , the answer was already no because of the last minute update . user interface: If you have questions project manager: If  that was the the directive that came through from management , but if we had a a decent case for that we really think it's important to include video and D_V_D_ , I could get back to them and see . user interface: Yeah , and also it's it's  other question is  because there are so many different And there are so many different things that could possibly be included marketing: project manager: user interface: because besides video and D_V_D_ there are the   video C_D_s and whatever , so it might be problematic to to choose between all these possible things . industrial designer: project manager: Are there any questions for clarification of Maarika before we go on to the next one ? industrial designer: So in the u user interface requirements    we we have been able to identify what are the basic buttons that we do want .  but  so so at this stage ,  how we go about implementing those button we will not identify or  in we can completely do away with buttons and  have some kind of a fancy user interface or something like that . But  is is there any   any thoughts on that ? user interface:  well , I think the buttons are still  kind of the most  easy for the user to use , industrial designer: Right . user interface:   what other options would you have ? A little screen or something , but this would be really kind of I think a lot of learning for the user industrial designer: Yeah , and it'll make the costs yeah . user interface: and and  the user just wants to get  get a result  quickly , not to spend time in like  giving several orders  I dunno . user interface: I think I th I would I would think the put the buttons , but if if you have other  proposals  . industrial designer:  I think the co costs will also play a big role when we come to know about them . industrial designer:  i if the if the costs allow , we can have like an L_C_D_ display user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: try to press project manager: Is it plugged in prop industrial designer: oh , okay , marketing: It's working . marketing: So what I have , wh where I've got my information from is a survey where the usability lab  observed remote control use with  a hundred subjects and then they gave them a questionnaire .  so it was all about , you know , how people feel about the look and feel of the remote control , you know . What's the most annoying things about remote controls and  the possibility of speech recognition and L_C_D_ screens in remote control . Not that they actually gave me any answers on the L_C_D_ screens , so I should have taken that bit out , but anyway . What they found is that people don't like how current remote controls are , so you know , definitely you should be looking at something quite different . project manager: marketing:  current remote controls , they don't match the user behaviour well , as you'll see on the next slide .  I dunno what zapping is , but project manager: It's  switching between channels , sort of randomly going through .  okay , fifty percent of users say they only use ten percent of the buttons , project manager: industrial designer:  . marketing: so that's going back to what , you know , we were saying earlier about , you know , do you need all the buttons on the remote control , industrial designer: Right .  but project manager: I liked the , I liked the litt marketing: ooh where's it go ? project manager: ooh come back . marketing:  okay , so like what it shows is how much things are used relatively and what you can clearly see from that is the thing that's used most is the channel selection . marketing: What you can't see is volume selection , it's a little bit higher than all the others . project manager: - , that's the next one along , yeah ? marketing: Yeah , so what the graph shows is that , you know , power , channel selection and volume selection are important , and the rest of them , you know , nobody really uses and so that's the the numbers along the top represent their like  their importance , you know , project manager: marketing: and , you know , channel selection and volume selection are absolutely essential , and the power , well it's not quite so essential , apparently , although I don't understand how it couldn't be , industrial designer: marketing:  and everything else , I think , you know , you can forget about having those buttons on the remote control , 'cause they're just not needed , and they're not used . marketing: This is the bit that the email messed up for me and that's what I was fiddling about with at the beginning of the thing .  that they get lost , that the  you know , they're not intuitive and that they're bad for repetitive strain injury . marketing: I think if you're watching enough T_V_ to get repetitive strain injury from  you know , watching T_V_ , then that's the least of your problems , project manager: The remote control . Okay , so   the the R_S_I_ thing would be that , like when you have the computer keyboards and you keep your wrists up would be something that encourages industrial designer: Right . marketing: you want something with an ergonomic t design that encourages good use of the remote control and you know , not straining your wrists watching T_V_ . Right ,  sorry this is pink because I was copying and pasting the table , and I didn't have time to white it out again . So you can see from that that , you know , younger people to the age of thirty five are quite likely to pay quite a lot more f well quite are quite likely to pay more for voice recognition software , whereas as people get older , they're a bit more sceptical about it and they're less willing to to try it .  so clearly voice recognition is something to think about , but  you know I d I do wonder how well that would work given that a T_V_ , you know , tends to be people talking and  , you know , how are you going to stop it from just flipping channels whilst watching T_V_ . So you have sleek , stylish , sophisticated , you know , so something that's , you know , a bit cool .  there's a there's an important thing that , you know , people use when , you know , when you're filling up your home , you know , a lot of people fill up their home with bits of crap , basically , you know , and you've got all this stuff , and you're just like , what the hell is that , who is ever gonna use it ? You know , so things should either be functional or beautiful or preferably both , so I think we need to aim for both . marketing:  okay , then a long battery life , like you were talking about earlier and  , you know , I was thinking that solar power would be quite cool because , you know , your remote control just sits there , and you could just sit it in the sunshine and save the environment a bit . industrial designer: marketing:  and then like a locator , so you know , kind of like you have for a mobile phone or industrial designer:  . marketing: not a mobile phone industrial designer: Some kind of a ring , project manager: Keys and things like that , industrial designer: some marketing: Yeah , that's it , you know . My flatmate and I were talking about this on the way into uni this morning and I was like I need to get one for everything . industrial designer: project manager: marketing: So yeah , so maybe something where you clap and then it beeps , something a kind of sound that you don't often hear on the T_V_ , you know , industrial designer: Right . marketing: 'cause you don't want your remote control beeping every five minutes , project manager: marketing: 'cause you you'd then deliberately lose it by throwing it out the window or something . I think one of the very interesting things that came up in   Ka Kate Cat Cat's  presentation was   this this issue of   like voice recognition being more popular with  younger people . industrial designer: So if we need to have a target group  then  I think as far as the m motto of our company is concerned , if we want to have something sleek and  you know , good looking  we are better off targeting a younger audience then  you know , people who are comparatively elderly . marketing: Yeah ,  that's the thing is that it didn't say in the survey , you know , whether , you know , these are the people that will pay more for a more stylish remote control , industrial designer: Right . Bu but but the survey did say that f things like voice recognition are more popular with them , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: so if you want to put in something stylish , then  th it'll certainly be more popular with this i ye with the younger people as compared to older people , project manager: project manager: Then again I guess the th where it was most popular was the fifteen to twenty five bracket industrial designer: Right , and project manager: and the I don't know how often they're buying televisions . marketing: Well , that's when you go to uni , isn't it ? So , you know project manager: Yeah , but you don't have much money , generally . Yeah , project manager: I would've thought it's it's more that twenty five to thirty five , when people are really moving out and they've got their first job and they want their nice toys and user interface: you share a television or something that yeah . industrial designer: But  still , if if you can go back to that slide and  , how popular was it ? project manager: O oh it's on marketing: Oh , I've unplugged it . marketing: Do you want me to project manager: Here , let me industrial designer: That's alright , if you can just look it up on your computer , wh   people between twenty five to thirty five ,  how popular was marketing: Yeah . marketing: Yeah , I kn  I know what you're saying about the fifteen to twenty five year olds , project manager: Yeah . marketing: but  it has been proven that that people of that age group have a higher disposable income because they don't have like  , you know , if you're at university , you're paying your rent , project manager: Yeah , they've got no commitments and marketing: but you don't have a mortgage , you don't have a life insurance policy , industrial designer: Alright . marketing: you don't normally have a car , project manager: usually not a car and all of those things . industrial designer: So you're more likely to b marketing: so that just costs more than a car , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: Yeah , and if we're if we're talking twenty five Euros as a price , that's not unaffordable , even for young people . marketing: No ,  that's what , that's like fifteen Pounds ? You know , I think project manager: Yeah . user interface: Yeah this this is not unaffordable , project manager: user interface: but the problem is whether people need it , whether they do have a T_V_ to use its full project manager: Yeah . We didn't have a T_V_ last year , project manager: But do they user interface: Yeah . project manager: But the T_V_s are often kind of someone's old T_V_ that's blah blah user interface: Common , the students yeah , yeah . user interface: yeah , and the remote control might not yeah , industrial designer:  user interface: it might not even function with the old T_V_ . marketing: industrial designer: Bu but even even in the case of twenty five to thirty five it's quite popular , right ? project manager: marketing: Yeah , I d well we've we've got quite a d decent T_V_ . user interface: Or w maybe we can just kind of   marketing: I think I think the fact that , you know , ninety one point two percent of fifteen to twenty five year olds are saying yes , I would pay more for a voice recognition remote control , does say quite a lot really . marketing: You know , so  that and the disposable income and I don't think it's something to ignore , you know . user interface: Yeah , but at the same time I think maybe we can we can just decide to to have both of these groups as our target , project manager: Yeah . project manager: Yeah , if we ta if we take fifteen to thirty five , user interface: Yeah . industrial designer:  project manager: Is that gonna have a an implication for the technical specs ? industrial designer: I was having a a general outlook on  m most like sophisticated features , but voice recognition itself I'm not very sure about , because one of the p  things that Cat pointed out was   how do we go about implementing it ?  and  project manager: marketing: You do have it in your mobile phone though , don't you ? Because you have like  every mobile phone now has like call this person and it calls them . With  but with a T_V_ remote it's gonna be quite limited if we're t saying the main things people want to do is on off channel five , user interface: An industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: So like when you say change , except that's being said quite a lot on T_V_ , project manager:  . marketing: Although I only watch Charmed , so really I wouldn't know industrial designer: project manager: marketing: but like so you'd just say remote five , you know , remote ten , remote one two nine . industrial designer: Okay , so it seems like a feasible thing to implement  for for a limited user interface: Yeah . project manager: so if we go for the the fifteen to thirty five age group and then of course we're going to get th anyone who's older than thirty five who wants to look young and hip and trendy and has the money , user interface: Yeah but   Yeah , yeah sure , yeah , yeah . user interface: Yeah , w well now the v the voice recognition if if it works wonderfully w we could possibly do away with all buttons , but I think this is not really the right moment yet , because people are just so used to buttons project manager: Yeah , user interface: and  , yeah it's it's kind of safer , so we we need both , industrial designer:  . industrial designer: What  user interface: so the voice recognition would be just an extra , it wouldn't really reduce the size of the remote . industrial designer: What wh  what I was thinking is that there is this  separation between what the channels are on T_V_ and how they are numbered on the remote control . If we can do with away with that , our product can be really popular  in the sense that  a person can say , I want to watch  I_T_V_ one instead of saying that I want to go onto channel number forty five . industrial designer: Yeah , so if  if something like that can be incorporated , marketing: Yeah , that would be another way to do it . industrial designer: some kind of marketing: Yeah , but then the code word would be even more important , because  Sky advertise on every channel , don't they , you know , project manager: Yeah . marketing: so then it would be you'd be watching Charmed , and then the Sky advert would come on and it would change to Sky . marketing: Yeah , yeah , industrial designer: Yeah , that's marketing: and that would be really annoying . user interface: Yeah but m but on the other hand , remote control isn't as close to you you probably might just just  speak into it project manager: Yeah . user interface: and and the T_V_ would be already further away , so it might not pick up the other things coming from there . Do you not think that defeats the object of having voice recognition on a remote control though ? project manager: So that you can yell at it , industrial designer: marketing: Yeah , you know , so you have to have the remote control . marketing: It's more like if you lost it and it's down the sofa sometime , you can yell at it and it'll just change it , you can look for it later , yeah . user interface: Yeah , but then the remote control I think   the idea is kind of it's it's not that it's sitting there on on top of the television , because then you could already yell at the television and you wouldn't you you wouldn't need the remote control , so the remote control is still something you keep n near yourself . marketing: Yeah , yeah , I suppose nearer to you but a b like if you have surround sound then industrial designer:  yeah and it might become very difficult from a distance for the television to understand what you're saying because of the noise factor for the remote control project manager:  . user interface: No , but I I I was just defending the the fact why why we want to keep the remote control close to us , a and  not to yell at it from the distance . So  wh another thing  that can be used is that  there can be a beeper button on the T_V_ , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: so you can go and press that button and  and the remote control , wherever it is , it'll beep , project manager: project manager: but y you could have something , but i if it was something that you could like stick onto the T_V_ or something , user interface: Oh yeah , yeah . project manager: some like a two p if you bought it in a two part pack , so one part attaches to the T_V_ . marketing: Yeah , 'cause it's it's quite important that you don't lose the the bit to locate the remote control . But if we go away with that that kind of general  specification in mind that we're looking at fifteen to thirty five year olds , we want it to look simple , but still have the buttons so it's easy to use , but only those key buttons , the major buttons and then one sort of menu one , and then voice recognition included as an option user interface: The major ones , yeah . project manager:  but that obviously needs a little bit more working out as to whether it's really feasible and some of those problems we were mentioning  . project manager: What we have to do now is to go back to our little places , complete our questionnaire and some sort of summarisation , which y you'll get immediately by email . Send me your presentations so that I can use them to make the minutes , and then we've got a lunch break industrial designer: project manager: and after lunch we go back to our own little stations and have thirty minutes more work . project manager:  I'll put the minutes in that project documents folder , but I'll send you an email when I do it , so that you know . industrial designer: So where exactly is this i project manager: It should be on your desktop , so on the industrial designer: Ah , okay . project manager: So I'll put it I'll put them there as soon as I've written them . user interface: Did you find it ? industrial designer: Yeah , yeah in that one , user interface: It's just yeah , yeah . marketing: Oh , so y you want our  PowerPoint presentations in there , hey ? project manager: Yeah , that would be great . user interface: Oh so so we'll just put them i there , project manager: Oh yeah , put them in there . project manager: So , if you put them in there , we'll all be able to see them and refer to them if we need to . project manager:  as to where we're going from here , you're going to look at the components concept . marketing: project manager: You'll be looking you'll be looking at the user interface concept , user interface:  something conceptual , yeah . project manager: on something conceptual and you're watching trends to see how we go and surely voice recognition'll fall off the map or something that marketing: project manager:  we'll keep keep our options op  ? industrial designer: Wha what was it again that I was supposed to look into ? Con components , oh . user interface: Sorry , but  the next meeting  are we going to have it  right after lunch or shall we prepare our project manager: No , we have we have after lunch we have thirty minutes to ourselves to prepare , user interface: To prepare , okay , yeah , that's good . project manager: so that's fine , w before lunch we just have to complete the questionnaire and some sort of summary . project manager: Okay , so you can I guess we'll see you for lunch in a sec ? marketing: user interface: Okay , see you .