project manager:  I think we're slightly ahead of ourselves from the last meeting , user interface: project manager: This is where we talk about  properties , materials , user-interface and trend-watching . project manager: So I think we've touched on a few things to do with that already , but we'll just go over it .  we had a couple of  changes in our plans in that we couldn't use teletext , it wasn't gonna be a control for everything  and that we had to incorporate the image of the company into it somehow .  we have decided on a leaving out the voice recognition , we've decided on there being a flip design and  a different shape from what's normal . We were thinking a shell , but something along those lines , just a different shape from what's normal ,  . project manager: and we were gonna think about the port and an alarm for getting it lost , user interface: project manager: things like that , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: Okay , so shall we start with the first presentation ? marketing: Shall I ? user interface: Yep . Okay  so we decided on our market and so this feedback from the marketing department is really about trend watching .  the methods we used to decide on  current trends and so on , market trends , were that we did our traditional  our usual market research study  with a hundred subjects and the the general feedback from them is that the most im  w I'm sorry I'm slightly tongue-tied after lunch , user interface: project manager: It's okay .  we decided on the most important aspect i  required in a remote control device and we'll come to that later . Also with our company  being forerunners in  putting fashion into technology , we also looked at a fashion update  using our consultants on fashion and design in Paris and Milan .  so the general findings from that was  in the market trends the most important aspect for remote controls were people want a fancy look and feel , rather than the the current functional look and feel of remote controls . They also also want a remote control to be technologically innovative , and of course , as we predicted , that it should be easy to use . Now I should point out that the first of those findings , fancy look and feel , is the most important , is twice as important as the second , technologically innovative , which is in turn twice as important as being easy to use . So possibly that the feature that we put first is actually third is still important , but it's third in order of preference for the the subject group we looked at . marketing: Okay , now the fashion update which relates to very personal preferences among our subject group ,  we found from our  consultants in Paris and Milan who des attended all the design and fashion fairs there , that fruit and vegetables are going to be the theme for clothes , shoes and furniture . So should we be thinking of using something like that in our remote control design too ? There also seems to be  a trend towards a spongy feel to materials ,  again in contrast to last year . So a lot of interesting feedback there , both from our market research departments and from our people in Paris and Milan . marketing: Unless anyone has any questions about that ? project manager: I don't think so , not yet . project manager: especially if you do them on too tight and you can't get the leverage on them to undo them .  this is  all about the design of the actual components and the availability of the components we have in stock at the moment . The the main idea of the whole thing is just so you sh you just press buttons and it should activate things on the T_V_ and we discussed last meeting that it should be easy to find .  also in this study I've looked into the availability of some of the materials , 'cause some of the things that we looked at last time aren't un unfortunately aren't available . This is  the chip called the T_A_ double one eight three five which is what's used in pretty much every remote control 'cause it sends out standard signals , based on your input and  it's pretty much used for all all T_V_ remotes at the moment . marketing: industrial designer: There's  actually no rechargeable option available , so we I saw the  the standard double A_ and triple A_ which we thought were a bit bit too bulky at the moment , dynamo charging , I thought that that might be a bit silly to be to be honest , project manager: Wa can you explain that ? industrial designer: people won't it's it's basically like wind-up radio . marketing: project manager: How what kind of how l long can you get out of that , industrial designer: It might project manager:  can you pick it up and then wind it for two minutes and then that's it for the night ? Or industrial designer: You Yeah , yeah , oh yeah I presu you wouldn't have to wind it for very long , but I don't I don't think it's really sort of necessary when you th you think of the next two options , like the the solar charging , 'cause most people have the light on in the room anyway so they could get when when you got T_V_ . project manager: That doesn't count though does it ? marketing: Does does light charge as as sunlight does ? project manager: I thought it was U_V_ like industrial designer: No . marketing: Artificial light ? industrial designer: Is it ? Alright i project manager: Any , any marketing: Has to be solar . Regarding those sizes , which one you think will be light because we we have to take into consideration size also , so maybe a standard triple A_ might take lesser space or and dynamo might take more space . industrial designer: Yeah it would the d yeah the dynamo would take more space 'cause you actually need a physical sort of handle to wind up . marketing: That's going to project manager:  people who live in basement flats there's not that many people , but there are people . user interface:  marketing: I know , industrial designer: But marketing: different parts of the world too , if we're if we're marketing internationally . industrial designer: and most people most people also watch T_V_ in the in the night anyway . project manager: but then it would be charging through the day , I think the point is that it charges through the day and then you've got it charged for the evening . industrial designer: The the kinetic charging which is like you get it in r you get it in wrist watches project manager: Yeah I've seen industrial designer: and you d you don't even notice it .  the amount the amount of probably moving around you'd be doing all the time would would charge it up , I don't think you'd ever need to actually physically start shaking it up to make it work . user interface: And are these like  what are the life of the kinetic battery , it like it runs for long time ? industrial designer:  yeah it's it charges into  some form of it's a smaller cell which it charges into and  the si the size sort of a watch a watch battery , user interface: industrial designer: And that'll that would l would last for  well I do I d I'm not entirely sure how long it would last but I've never seen one run out . user interface: We c project manager: But then if you think about a watch , it's on your wrist so it's on your whole bod it's on your body the whole time industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: so you're walking around , you're doing things , it is moving a lot of the time . If you'd industrial designer: Yeah and project manager:  you switch the T_V_ on , then you put it on the side , then you pick it up to change it and then you put it on the side . industrial designer: Yeah but then again project manager: Is it really gonna be enough ? industrial designer: I I think it is because if you think about it , the watch , although it's only a tiny amount it's it's  it's always moving for the whole day and they don't run out over night when you leave them on the side . industrial designer: And th for the same the same reason , you're only using it for a v incredibly short amount of time just to send the signal and then you're finished with it project manager: So it's not the draw on it isn't industrial designer: and you put it marketing:  . industrial designer: no no I do I don't think the the draw on it would be marketing: marketing: Could I just ask referring back to solar charging , is that compatible with  standard batteries ? industrial designer:  . marketing: could people put standard batteries in but with a s you know they could leave it in the sunlight for solar charging industrial designer: Ye yeah I think I th  g y you could have a dual  power thing marketing: or the two things not compatible ? project manager: Like a dual kind of . industrial designer: but the the thing with the solar cells is you would need to put them on the case and they because , if you lie on a calculator they they're qui they're quite big and they all they all look i identical . What kind of price are we looking at for industrial designer: They're they're expensive , they don't user interface: It's twelve point f project manager: I presume the normal batteries are the cheapest ? industrial designer: Yeah the normal batteries would be the cheapest I'd presume then it would actually be the the solar charging ones ,  but the It's i I think they're not very resistant to dropping , project manager: Solar . industrial designer: 'cause if you drop stuff yeah if you if you have y project manager: Well they're not designed industrial designer: the size you'd need to charge a remote wouldn't be that big but  if remotes always get thrown around and stuff , so .  calculators you don't really throw around a lot whereas remotes you do , project manager: You do get a bit of wear industrial designer: they can t project manager: but don't calculators have a battery in them as well ? industrial designer: Yeah they do , they yeah they've got dual things , but they're the batteries are smaller I think . W w which one would last the longest , because we don't want customers to be like you know charging like a mobile phone every day . user interface: A remote control , like , industrial designer: W m yeah user interface: so we have to s look at the life also . industrial designer: so the Yeah the the s if you if you had something du  using the standard batteries and the solar charging , I don't think you'd I think the it would d well you know how long the standard double A_s would last in or triple A_s would last . marketing: It would just detract from the attractiveness of the of the whole feature , industrial designer: Yeah I think i I think it would , yeah . project manager: Can we think about that ? 'Cause if we're doing the kinetic thing and it's industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: Shouldn't we do some market research on that first before we add it in because I I personally project manager: Well add it in to think about  marketing: right , okay . project manager: because , where am I ? If it is the kinetic thing and it is small and it is portable and it is a different shape and the kinetic is something people don't do kind of industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: we're doing something original and different  but if you wore it if it's something you could just clip on your pocket then you would have that less , you you wouldn't lose it so much . project manager: But then maybe that's looking at someone who's just sitting on their own rather than industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: marketing: It's not something that's come up in any of our  focus groups and market research , project manager: No . industrial designer: my second part of my findings  the mo most current remotes use this silicone  P_C_B_ board which pr printed circuit board , which basically has these contacts that are really close together and then when you press down on the rubber button , it'll connect the circuit and each each switch is connected to two  different legs on the chip and so sends a different message and that then  gets translated by the chip into a code and then it's fired out of this L_E_D_ in the sequence of l on and off bursts . project manager: What kind of things do we have to consider there ? Can we what kind of size , does it come in varying sizes or is it just one size and we would have to fit the design of industrial designer: Well well this the thi the thing about is  they they can be as big or as small as you want them to be because you can you can print circuit board like that that it's it's simply spaced like that so you can have fit the n the size of the nine buttons in . If you if you see how thin the tracks are , you could you could s you could put them virtually right next to each other and have a much smaller switch on each one , project manager: industrial designer: if you if you wanted to but  the there is an option to do to do it like that , or you could have some sort of array of switches which I'll speak about in the next bit project manager: Okay . industrial designer: so that And then to  yeah , so to conserve battery life the remote should be in a standby mode no while not being used . Now what I was thinking about that was 'cause sometimes when y when you have these things , they've got little lights on behind the buttons , so you can see what all the buttons are , like on a mobile phone , they do it more often than on a than on a T_V_ remote , project manager: industrial designer: but you could you could have lights behind the buttons and  after like five or ten seconds of not being used I'd have that turned off , if we decided to go for buttons that could light up . industrial designer: the case material , I've a been sent what the factory can actually give us , the there's the plastic which I think we were gonna go for anyway as the main case case housing project manager: industrial designer: and the the main problems with the well you could go for wood but I think it would be a bit impractical . industrial designer: which to make it is expensive , and rubber , well you're saying that people like this  spongy feel this year , so perhaps  some something made of rubber , marketing:  . industrial designer: but I was thinking more of the buttons , because the buttons which they've they've said that they've they've put across are what is used in some stress ball manufacture and it's meant to be anti R_S_I_ . industrial designer: I'm no I'm not sure how that would work because surely your fingers would still be moving over the short distances but that's what they said .  the problem with the casing is that  there's quite  there's quite a few design restrictions that they've got on the shape of the case . If you go for titanium they can only do a standard box shape , whereas if you come to plastic they can they can be a little more they can they can do sort of curved shapes . But whether whether or not because we'd have it in two separate units user interface: Second thing is project manager: Hinged , yeah . user interface: yeah and second question is like , a mobile you can change the cover , you call it a skin or whatever . user interface: So in this case if you're looking at like a customer can change the colour like from green , parrot green to chilli red or something like that . user interface: So is that feature available in like  titanium , industrial designer: Yeah I th user interface: or it's like only specific to plastic or industrial designer:  . Yeah in in titanium I don't I don't think it would be available at all really , the ju just marketing: industrial designer: it w well you could make it available in the titanium , it was just it would be so expensive to buy a new case for it , because of the expense of how much titanium is is user interface: industrial designer: it's light and strong but I think it should be left for aircraft design rather than for for a remote . I've got a mobile phone myself which is titanium and it does mark very easily if you drop it . marketing: I was just wondering if we make the basic mould out of plastic but have like a rubber cover that goes over , industrial designer: Rubber , yeah . marketing: that would give the spongy feel , that also allows us to kind of have different fasciae for the phone . project manager: So instead of the fascia that comes off being plastic , the fascia that comes off would be the rubber , marketing: Like a rubber sleeve almost , yeah . user interface: Something like project manager: like those pens that you get with the grip , that you can you can pull that off . industrial designer: T marketing: Very cheap way of changing the look of it and people can just buy a new one if they want to . project manager: Well that's been really popular with mobile phones so I don't see why not . industrial designer: just just going back to the interface designs with the buttons , the I kno we were planning to do some sort of touch screen . industrial designer: Now what I was saying before about instead of having you could have just a bare P_C_B_ circuit board and I'm sure you could probably get it in different colours and so just by touching it with your finger it'd make the connection over if you had them close enough , that would be one option .  the second option th they offer rubber buttons , but I thought that an L_C_D_ type of screen 'cause one they're incredibly thin  and don't take up much space , two they you can have them in a sort of array and you can arrange the buttons on the screen in a sort of set thing and you could have them like a touch user interface: Sorry I didn't get the last part , you're talking of industrial designer: display .  what what user interface: Just what you said I I didn't get the  meaning of it completely , you're saying like industrial designer: Oh on the on the L_C_D_ screen you could becau you could fit it user interface: -huh . industrial designer: the problem with it basically is that it's flat and so you can't do lots of curve curved things with it , user interface: Okay . industrial designer: but  you can you wouldn't have with the L_C_D_ you'd have the wires coming off , you wouldn't have that with the with the L_C_D_ , you'd only have that with the printed circuit board . industrial designer: With W also with the marketing: I don't s sorry to interrupt , I don't see why the curved thing is a problem , if we for example had a shell , once we open that industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: You could have a flat screen inside , yeah , marketing: yeah , so it'd be f yeah , yeah . industrial designer: but I'm just wondering whether we want an L_C_D_ screen inside . marketing: Have I misunderstood you ? industrial designer: It wouldn't be like full colour , it would just be black and white , marketing: industrial designer: so you wouldn't be pressing down on 'em , w or we could have rubber buttons which are made of this material which is anti-R_S_I_ . project manager: I think it would be good to have a contrast between , if the whole thing is gonna be this rubber thing it would be good to open it up and see something quite fancy looking inside . project manager: Now how would you distinguish , if you had it bare , how would you distinguish where you had to press ,  industrial designer: Yeah I hadn't I hadn't really thought of that to be honest . project manager:  marketing: I just had another idea , I don't know if it helps with that , but just to do with the R_S_I_ . Is it possible , just as an option , when we open it up , people can use their fingers to press the button , or we have inside like a small pointer thing when people want to . industrial designer: Yeah you could , you could have some sort of stylus that you could pull out project manager: Like one of the palm pop thing . user interface: Absolutely , f for somebody who very often , if he would industrial designer: 'cause I had marketing: Yeah . user interface: a person who switches channels very often or does use a particular function very often will find it very irritating to use a industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: and he might spoil the touch-pad very fast compared to a button like , if you keep punching with an pointer or whatever . marketing: Yeah just a thought they wouldn't actually need one and they could use anything they've got , couldn't they ? A pencil or a pen , so they wouldn't really need a project manager: Okay , we'll talk about that so if you finish your industrial designer: Yeah that's project manager: and we'll come back to that . industrial designer: yeah that that's the end of m my project manager: That's you , right okay . user interface: And just one small question before like you are , regarding the circuit , since we are hav having a flip-top , we can customise the two circuits for different type of buttons industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: like we are keeping the standard buttons on the top and the more complex buttons under this thing , so we can divide the circuit like you know . industrial designer:  you'd you'd actually have two separate you'd have two separate circuit boards but they'd be joined by wires or like some cabling between them , user interface: Okay . marketing: I'll just raise another point while it occurs to me , it kind of applies to both our designers here , so I'm not sure how it would fit in . marketing: If we flip open , now you know how you've got some mirrors in nightclubs that are mirrors when you turn to them and you turn away and it gives like an advertising display , you seen those ? project manager: No . Is it possible that when we open our flip-top shell it's a little compact mirror and when you press a button it then goes onto the phone display th  the remote control display thing . project manager: Well it's a remote control , you were sitting watching T_V_ are you gonna want to sort of open it and say oh shit I should go and have a shower and do my hair before I put the T_ marketing: Yeah . I know what you mean , it's with us using the ideas for a mobile ph industrial designer: marketing: it's with us using the ideas for mobile phones I kinda got sidetracked onto that I think , okay . marketing: trying to think of other features we can build in that wouldn't cost too much project manager:  . industrial designer:  you can you could do it , you could have a 'cause if you if you just put the full charge through an L_C_D_ display it'll completely blank it out , marketing:  . industrial designer: but I don't know if you could get any mirror effect on it , I'm not sure about marketing: Oh I think forget about the mirror project manager: Okay , okay . First thing is  basically on design we just took the input from the previous meeting , especially from the marketing and industrial design , to check on the customer needs and feasibility . Second is we checked into competitors , the picture here shows one of the standard models offered by competitors here . So y you generally see there's not much of variety and like marketing team said  , people need trendy , they are bored of black and white . user interface: Like , some some people have a Here you see this ? This is on a I I I found th that  only common feature is the ch  channel control and  volume control , rest other buttons , they are in a very disorganized and they are not consistent th with other models and all . user interface: Okay , and second as already discussed with William , we are going to have m maybe a G_ G_U_I_ interface in the f in the middle of the flip-top industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: and g graphic user interface marketing: Sorry what does that stand for ? project manager: Which means user interface: basically which is what we d do in computer , have icons or touch pad or whatever , marketing: Okay . user interface: which is industrial designer: If you if yeah if you have like buttons that appear on the screen in this L_C_D_ screen . user interface: Like you have on a l  icons or something y you have is a good example of G_U_I_ graphic user interface . user interface: So basically not point or click Press any particular device , he just has to click on that particular icon to simplify . user interface: And on the top m repetitive buttons which are like volume or channel changing and all could be on the pointing device , that means the use of button . user interface: So we are having a combination of boards , so f on the s simpler board , on the top we have this button , rubber buttons , to keep frequently changing the channels . project manager: Can we swap that round so th that the ones that we use all the time are on the bottom part ? user interface: project manager: 'Cause if you're thinking about holding it you would be using your thumbs to press , just like a mobile phone . marketing: No you'd hold it you don't if you flip it open then you'd be Wouldn't you ? Isn't that the idea ? You us if we just use the shell as an example again , you open that , you've got your L_C_D_ display there and you've got the buttons there so you're holding it in the palm of your hand , yeah . That's what I was just saying , industrial designer: Yeah , yeah but you can do it with your thumb li user interface: But project manager: and then have the and then have the L_C_D_ at the top user interface: user interface: Okay and you mean to the project manager: so have the  the volume and the programme , things like that , user interface: And the lower distance . Okay we had a latest finding of voice recognition , there was a mail which mentions that our division has developed a new speech recognition s feature . We have to check into the for financial f feasibility whether we can incorporate it this at a low cost , but for like we had g  s response from the customers that they would like to have the feature of finding it . user interface: So it could be like , where is the remote , and the remote answers I am here . user interface: Some kind of thing or it gives a b bleep sound or some kind of sound marketing:  . user interface: and if this can be incorporated this would be more  you can say trendy also ? And technologically innovative also . My personal preferences would be like , as already  marketing department , they want something to do with fruit so I wouldn't say the design should be like a fruit , but yeah we can take inspiration from fruit colours , like the vibrant colours ,  red chilli  marketing:  . user interface: tomato red or whatever and second thing is cer certain standard buttons we should have , like for example , i if you see the previous slide  industrial designer: Well , yeah we user interface: I think most of the users would now be well acquainted with this cer central pattern , here , so we we we would not change h that particular pattern industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: I can't see that , is that play and stop and things ? user interface: This is central one , the one you project manager: Or is that volume and channel ? user interface: yeah volume and channel . So keep that m that standardised because that's the most common feature across all models , if you look at all the models , it's here .  I'm not sure how long we've got left , but we need to make a decision about  the things we've discussed . project manager: that means that there's no function for li the port , you know that it sits in , then pressing the button then having industrial designer:  . industrial designer: Yeah I think project manager: It's a bi i it's like a g it's a gadget , it's a industrial designer:  if Yeah it is it is qui it's quite a cool feature to have project manager: selling point . industrial designer: and also if they've got it if they've got these parts already in stock , then it won't be cheap to re-manufacture them , user interface: So do you reckon that's a good idea that , where's the remote , I'm here thing ? I think that would be quite fun . project manager: I think the only pitfall that we would have would be how much it's going to cost if that means we have to cut down somewhere else , industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: Yeah to s th well it's it's not as expensive as it would be if it was full colour 'cause if we've just got a black and white one , marketing:  . marketing: we've deci seem to have decided on that , did we decide on double A_ or triple A_ batteries ? user interface:  . project manager: Do you want like a back-up ? marketing: No , one of the decisions we had to make was whether we had double A_ or triple A_ batteries 'cause they've still got to be charged this way haven't they ? industrial designer: K no the kinetic ones come come with  a sort of w watch a battery that goes in a watch . industrial designer: So it's a lot smaller , so it would marketing: Got you on that okay , didn't realise . The buttons what did you give us as our The bare-board L_C_D_ or industrial designer: Yeah the well I think were we're going for the L_C_D_ on that one , on the buttons , user interface: industrial designer: on the on the on on the top one we're gonna project manager: On the top one okay you've got the touch industrial designer: yeah . project manager: okay and then industrial designer: On the bottom we were gonna have the rubber , the rubber ones , the anti-R_S_I_ ones . marketing: Sorry could you repeat that last part ? industrial designer: okay on we've got the flip the flip-screen , the top one is gonna be the L_C_D_ and the bottom one is gonna be the rubberised buttons . user interface: For the body design I think plastic ,  w yeah industrial designer: Plastic , user interface: we could use the body , project manager: For the inside . user interface: for the inside and  rubber as a padding or for the grip , something like to add to the design . marketing: - , user interface: marketing: so we decided on a rubber casing for the plastic shell , a variety of designs , user interface: Plast right . and it is just  although it's rubberised and spongy , apart from that we're just going to go for sort of vegetable and fruit colours , we're not gonna try and make it actually a vegetable or fruit design or anything else , like a shell that we discussed , industrial designer:  no . user interface: It's project manager: we don't wanna be tacky if we've got a kind of different shape anyway marketing: Okay . project manager:  the fact the m the material that we would be using would be cheap , so we could make it red , we could make it  psychedelic , you know , we could make it black and white zebra stripes , marketing: project manager: but that's not really what we're focusing on , what we're focusing on is the m you know marketing: The feel . Is that going to be this image I've got in my head of something kind of shaped like that , maybe about that size , made of plastic , fits into the palm of the hand , rubberised cover that's spongy . Is that really going to fit fancy look and feel which was the major thing that people wanted , market research , user interface:  I it's different . project manager: It's just different marketing: is that fancy ? project manager: it's just different from everything else and  , I'm trying to imagine  clean looking houses , marketing:  . project manager:  so you either want something that goes with that , which is what's on the market anyway , marketing: project manager: or you want something that contrasts as you know like you get clocks now that are more of a talking point than an actual clock because they're so interesting and industrial designer:  . I'm just kind of pushing at that to see if you came out with anything else , but  I totally agree . marketing: This would definitely be different enough , I just wondered if anybody could come up with something even more project manager: And you would just have an across the b you would have so many different options that you could do , you could have  a plain black one , you could have sparkly pink glittery ones for your little marketing: Well the thing is the rubberised covers are going to be s relatively cheap to produce , that if in a year's time we we get feedback from the design fairs that show something else is coming  it's so easy for us to just produce that and it can be slipped on , project manager:  . project manager: And ones tha ones that have rubbery spikes marketing: which is another beauty of it . project manager: y you know , you could just go so far with it , industrial designer: You can you can just marketing: user interface: Acupressure , you could talk of acupressures . project manager: like a puffer fish , you could just , you could take it wherever , marketing: project manager: so I think that's quite a flexible thing . user interface: And finally the body should be retouchable , may maybe ch you can change the body or the case casing the case outside , project manager: Yes . user interface: it should be moulded it with the design in such a way you can change it every time . marketing: for the decisions that we've made , kinetic charging , the watch-type batteries ,  L_C_D_ display on th the top side of the flip top , rubberised buttons on the bottom side , we're gonna use fruit and vegetable colours for the rubber cover , the case itself is plastic . That's how far we've got , what else do we have to add to our decisions here ? user interface: Fine ,  we were talking of voice recognition also marketing:  . user interface: because that we are not for how to look it  remote control if it's lost . user interface: So , are we looking at voice ? marketing: Yes , it was just , there was just a cost issue with that , but it's a good idea we just need to check on the cost , user interface: Or maybe like  William was suggesting in the last thing some devices you put on key chains . project manager: Have you user interface:  sorry I didn't mention this , but we'll be incorporating in the design . marketing: 'Cause I took it from the feedback you gave in the last meeting from y from y your report , it's not just a case of having a little R_R_ hidden somewhere , they do want it to be obvious that it's our product project manager: Well they do , marketing: don't they ? project manager: but I think we can you could marketing: Since it's the only one of its kind on the market it's obviously gonna be ours . project manager: Obviously it'll have a logo on it just like everything , but everything else has a logo on it . The point is that it's got to stand out somehow differently but I think it does , without that marketing: Okay . Did we I know at the last meeting we spoke about a beeper , I think that was you talked about a beeper for a location , have we just rejected that in favour of voice recognition then ? project manager: Depending on how i industrial designer: Yeah , depending on the expense of it . project manager:  we've got this memo saying that it's something that the company's looking into , so industrial designer: And they've got in stock , so yeah . project manager:  that seems to make sense , but if it turns out that it's hugely expensive we'd have to cut down somewhere else , then it's worth thinking about .  user interface: Again a questionnaire huh ? project manager: so I think we've probably got it says , closing we have forty minutes marketing: You got to go through . user interface: project manager: It's either that or we only had forty minutes to discuss what we just discussed and don't know how long that took 