 and I  like to show you the agenda for the meeting , I don't know if it was sent round to all of you . project manager: this is the the plan for today's meeting is  firstly just to introduce the project briefly ,  although I'm sure you've actually got some of the information already . project manager:  then we want to practice using some of the tools that we'll be using during the the course of the design project and the meetings ,  specifically the whiteboard over there .  then we need to go through the specifics of our project plan  and discuss come up with some preliminary ideas about it .  we want it to be something original , something trendy and also something user friendly , so it has to be quite intuitive that people are able to use this product . The method that we're going to use to complete the project , that has three components as such . We're going the way we'll do that I think is to to work individually initially and then come together for meetings to to work on that .  similarly with the conceptual design , we'll start off by working individually with our own expertise on our own laptops and then we'll bring what we've done together . industrial designer: I'm a bit confused about  what's the difference between the functional design and conceptual design ?  i is it just  more detail ,  as I understand it ? project manager: I think it th w we're talking the the functional design is more your  area of things where you'll be we want to look at what functions we need in the remote control industrial designer: Right . project manager: and what what specific things it it has to do industrial designer: project manager: but the conceptual design is  perhaps bigger than that and includes the how people are going to use it and and that kind of thing . So whe where do we identify the components of our  product ?  I think it's it's in the conceptual design phase that we identify the it's in the conceptual design phase that we identify the components of our product ? project manager:  I think we'll we'll start that initially with the functional design already but then industrial designer: Okay .  what I'd like us to do now is simultaneously introduce ourselves and start using some of the tools that we're using for for the project , specifically the whiteboard . project manager: So each person in turn , I'd like us to go up to the whiteboard , the pen's just underneath it there and draw your favourite animal and then tell everyone what the f your favourite characteristics of that animal are and while you're doing that tell us your name , what your role is and perhaps how your animal relates to the role that you're taking in this project . industrial designer: marketing: Why are you looking at me ? user interface: marketing: project manager: Would you like to go first ? marketing: Do I have a choice ? industrial designer: marketing: Okay . marketing: So , my name's Cat and I'm really not very good at this whole drawing malarkey industrial designer: project manager: marketing: so  user interface: marketing: Okay . industrial designer: project manager: marketing: Yeah , I don't think it's furry enough , so we'll make it a fluffy rabbit . industrial designer: marketing:  okay and I like it because it's small and it's fluffy . industrial designer: user interface: marketing: And one day you'll be able to getical genetically modify them and they will come in pink . project manager: Excellent , and what's your what's your role within the team ? marketing: I am the  I need my notebook ,  ooh industrial designer: marketing: top banana . Okay , cool , I am the Marketing Expert  so like I'm gonna be doing the apparently according to the little guy in the computer that knows everything the user g requirements specification of the functional design ,  trend watching in the conceptual design and product evad-valuation in the detailed design project manager: industrial designer: project manager: And more about yourself , you're from ? marketing:  I'm from Leicester , project manager:  what else do you want to know ? industrial designer: marketing: I like sports  yeah , aerobics , kickboxing , spinning project manager: marketing:  and  project manager: But not with rabbits . project manager: There's a an if you have not enough room there's an eraser there and you can rub it off .  so   I'm the Interface Designer in this project and my favourite animal , I m  I'm not so sure because I'm not so so very  familiar with all kinds of animals , but I do like dogs . project manager: user interface: Oh , sorry , maybe I should have shouldn't have said it beforehand but industrial designer:  . project manager: industrial designer: marketing: user interface:  well , there are different kinds of dogs , but okay  . user interface:  yeah and I do like dogs because they are good friends to people and they are loyal . project manager: user interface:  yeah maybe maybe the fact that they protect their home as well , yeah . project manager: user interface:  I hope to be loyal to the project industrial designer: marketing: user interface: and not to n not to  let people doing similar projects know the details of our project or something , yeah . industrial designer: project manager: And where where are you from ? user interface: I'm from Estonia project manager: Estonia .  so is there anything else you'd like to know ? Oh , right , my roles , industrial designer: . user interface:  so  in the different  stages of the design , so at first I will be responsible for  for yeah , designing the technical functions of the   of the remote control  then in the in the conceptual design stage I need to  come up with  interface concept and then in the last  stage I will be responsible for the int infa for the user interface design . Okay  I'll do some I'll rub the features project manager: industrial designer: and let the drawing stay . user interface: industrial designer:  this is going to be marketing: They're not just like a big round body and then some really skinny legs industrial designer: Yeah , that'll do . industrial designer: Big , round body , really skinny legs marketing: project manager: industrial designer: and they've got a long tail marketing: industrial designer: and a long face . industrial designer: So this is what I like about cows marketing: Horns , project manager: user interface: industrial designer: that they just keeps sitting there eating grass , marketing: draw some horns . industrial designer: they do not disturb anybody  marketing: project manager: industrial designer: they're kind of Buddhist in a way .  my my role in the project is   the industrial designer , so I'm supposed to design all the details of of the product  ho how it works and whatever it'll  take during the functional role , what are the various functions that have to be performed by it  during the  conceptual design , what are the various components of it and  finally , I'm not too sure what was the last part .  the detailed design , I I guess it will again be the identification of the components and how they integrate with each other .  I'm doing my P_H_D_ in Psycholinguistics , I sit at the Department of Psychology . industrial designer: That doesn't look like a cow , does it ? project manager: Okay , here's a space . project manager:  I like dogs too , but I can't do that already because I can't draw a dog as well as you can . marketing: Is there a difference ? user interface: Is a ar are they also like lizards or are they project manager: They're Yeah , they're l it's a kind of lizard . user interface: yeah , they are project manager: And I I like geckos user interface: project manager: and , and where I was living in Cambodia they used to live in my house user interface: Ah . marketing: project manager: and they were on the ceiling and they would make little gecko noises in the evening . industrial designer: user interface: I hope you don't like snakes , do you ? project manager: I don't like snakes . project manager: I'm from Melbourne and I'm your Project Manager for today industrial designer:  . project manager: and my role is basically to keep things going and make sure that you all work together in a productive way , so that by the end of the day we come up with a great product . So , I've just thought marketing: If you right click on it you can project manager: yeah I've just thought about this that we could even put it much more professionally as marketing: industrial designer: We've got  we're planning to sell these remote controls for let's make that go away , that means we've got five minutes .  so to do that our finance people estimate that we need production costs of maximum twelve and a half Euro so that we can reach that profit target . Does anyone have any first ideas to bounce around about  what we're thinking of this remote control ? user interface: Yep . I'm just wondering whether whether there is like any special feature that we want to have w want this remote control have as opposed to the already existing ones . I think that's probably something that w it's best if we take away with us , industrial designer: project manager: but if we all have a think , when we go away from the meeting , what specific things could be  included in this remote control that that are out of the ordinary . industrial designer: I think  i in the beginning  one thing was that was mentioned was that it should be  trendy , user friendly and original so  I think your point is relevant as far as the originality is concerned , that we should provide some features that are quite unique to this . marketing: and the other things that they've made and I like put down some like inspirational words like that I got from looking at the pictures . marketing: and  so it's something that is sleek and stylish but it's still functional , you know ? project manager: marketing: So I'm kind of thinking , you know like those phones that they have , the new generation ones , where they don't actually have any buttons on them and stuff like that . marketing: You know , so something heading towards that , so it's not overly  I don't know what h most of the buttons do on my remote controls , so I figure how many do you need , you know ? project manager: project manager: So perhaps some sort of menu-based thing , or industrial designer: marketing: Something that's a little less crowded than this , like  you know , theoretically you can do all kinds of things with your T_V_ , right ? project manager: marketing: They turn it on , they watch certain specified channels , you know , and then they turn it off again . industrial designer: There is a lot of functionality in there that is not used ninety percent of the time , marketing: Sometimes they play a movie . marketing: there's no need to have buttons on it to do that , project manager: So , no . project manager: It could be one button for a menu or something , if you really need to go and do that . marketing: So , if you're the kind of sad case that knows how your remote control works , then you know that's fine project manager: industrial designer:  . marketing: and you can do it on the screen rather than everybody else having to have those buttons , which just confuse them . marketing: 'Cause like if you look at the train , it's just very like , there's no extra bits on it , the train on the website and I dunno if you can put it up on the thing project manager: Oh I haven't had a look yet , yep . marketing:  but it is just like a long like thing used for mu moving people , but it looks really pretty too .  we can aim for  we can think about all these little things , but we can aim for something wi that gives a high battery life , although I don't think that  it's a huge problem for remote controls anyway , battery life , project manager: user interface: Yeah but   e even though it has to be re original we shouldn't  go like too far away from from the usual ones , because otherwise the new users will just have a lot of problems industrial designer: Yeah . So , i it should kind of fit in as well , and the stereotype of a project manager: It's like those fancy websites that you can't access industrial designer: yeah . project manager: because you have no idea how to get in , but the designers thought they were great . Okay , so we need to wrap it up now , so that we can go away and get on with some of this .  we've got another meeting in thirty minutes , so you're you'll be getting specific instructions once you go back to your workspace , but im basically you're looking at the working design , industrial designer: Alright . project manager: you're looking at the technical functions design , and for you it's the user requirements specification , marketing: - 