project manager: I figured with the spam thing , if you can't beat it , join in . user interface: marketing: user interface: That's the kind of spam that everybody likes to receive . project manager: Are you ready ? Okay , right , well , I take it that you are all ready now .  which was we got together just to basically decide on well to talk about what it is that we were actually  supposed to be doing , marketing: project manager: and who we all are and stuff like that ,  get bit more of an idea together of what's going on .  what we are gonna talk about in this meeting is  now that we know what it is that we are doing , now we know that it's a T_V_ remote and stuff and you guys have just been off doing some some  R_ and D_ for that , that's research and development for those that haven't heard that before , user interface: marketing:  yeah , we're gonna hear your  th three little presentations , marketing: project manager: whether they be on computer or on the whiteboard or whatever you want . Do you have any preference  of order ? project manager:  I'd like to  hear marketing: project manager: o I'd like to hear who's g who's on the  from from  Catherine actually first . I want what I'd like to hear about is  if we've finally decided on  what sort of energy we're gonna be using and industrial designer: marketing: Batteries . project manager: It's just that yeah , let's let's hear from you first . industrial designer: Where is that thing ? user interface: Okay , it's  marketing: It's here . industrial designer:  so  for the energy sources we can have a basic battery , a hand dynamo which is which was used  in the fifties for torches , if you remember that kind of which wouldn't be v wouldn't be v v project manager: I don't think any of us remember the fifties . marketing: industrial designer: You can have a kinetic provision of energy , which is used on some watches these days . industrial designer: Or you can use solar cells , but I'm not sure about that indoors , really , but user interface: Well , there's sometimes combinations , like calculators do combinations of battery with but also using some solar power . project manager: Do sol solar panel things , do they have to work from the sun or can they work from a light bulb ? marketing:  . user interface:  I think , it has to be on the on the solar energy , but I don't know . industrial designer: And  if we want something fancier , I think the kinetic provision of energy could be nice , marketing:  . industrial designer: For the case of the remotes itself ,  they can be a general case , which is just a flat one . You can have  a curved one or a double curved one , if you know what  , so project manager: What's a double curved one ? industrial designer: You know , kind of more ergonomic , that kind of suits the palm of your hand , that kind of thing . industrial designer: So  then the case material itself , so it can be   either plastic or latex ,  rubber , wood , or titanium . And th for each of them you have  cases where for example titanium , you can't use it for if you if we're choosing a double curved case , we can't choose titanium . And if we are choosing  solar cells then we can't choose latex for the case material , so we just have to take that into account . And I think we discussed earlier on the R_ S_ I_ problem thing , so we could  project manager: So that might be an idea of using the rubber , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: but then it should , you know user interface: Let's have a squeezable remote . And also it doesn't break as easily maybe , project manager: when a T_V_ programme's got one industrial designer: I dunno user interface: project manager: watching the match and your team's just lost , you can fuzz it across the room and it'll bounce off the wall back at you . marketing: I think rubber's project manager: Rubber , we're all we're all going we're all liking that idea ? You think you can market that ? marketing: But after my after my fashion thing , I think you'll realise that rubber is more project manager: Ooh , we like rubber , ooh . And then there are the push-buttons , so you can have basic push-buttons or a scroll-wheels , like you have on a mouse ,  or you could have  L_C_D_ , which gives you a display . industrial designer: So if you use a rubber double curved case , you must use rubber push-buttons . project manager: Well , we're gonna go with I think we've decided that it's gonna be a rubber case so industrial designer: So it's a constraint . Yeah , but is it a double curved one or not ? If it's not a double curved , then we've got the choice for the push-buttons , if it's a double curve , we've gotta go for rubber push-buttons . user interface: If it's rubber , isn't it malleable anyway , it doesn't matter if it's double  isn't a rubber case , mean it's completely flexed , it it flexes to whatever they want it to ? Mean so what's the difference between a normal rubber case and a rubble doub double rubber double curved case ? project manager: rubble double double . industrial designer: No , but na le you see , you've got , okay , the energy that's one thing , project manager: I'll have a Big Mac , please . And that's we don't care if it's rub rubber or not , but then we've decided that we going for rubber for the case material . So if we've chosen rub rubber and if now we have the choice for the case whether it's flat , single curved or double curved . And I'm just saying if it if we choose it to be double curved then we need to go I dunno why , but we need to go for  rubber push-buttons .  so the push-buttons themselves they can be just simple or they can be so that's just the electronics between the but behind the push-buttons . industrial designer:  and the price that go with it with it , so the simple push-buttons are gonna be the cheapest . If we get an advanced chip which is  used for the L_C_D_ , the display thing , then that's even more expensive . project manager: is  , okay , advanced chip on print , which I presume is like one P_C_B_ and that's got all the electronics on one board including the  infra-red sender ? industrial designer: .  what a what alternatives do we have to that ? Y  what alternatives do we have to the chip on print ? industrial designer: Well , if if it's not chip on print then , I guess , you get different chip components , and you build them separately and doesn't include the infra-red . It's less expensive  project manager: so it sounds industrial designer: Technically speaking , it's not as advanced , but it does the job , too . project manager: So , why would we not go for that ? If it's something that's inside the the unit . project manager:  we wanna go for an i i all industrial designer: So let's not go for the project manager: so long as it works , industrial designer: Yeah , yeah . marketing: What about the just developed  sample sensor ? user interface: I think push-buttons is project manager: What about what ? marketing: G there , the sample sensor , sample speaker thing . industrial designer: Well project manager: Well , what do we need a speaker for in a remote control unit ? marketing: I dunno . industrial designer: It'd be it'd be cool , but they are saying they've just developed it , user interface: Yeah . But it's gonna be the most expensive option , probably and project manager: S user interface: Th the the speech recognition  option is it doesn't seem really very promising for us  , project manager: Yeah . user interface: 'cause  The yeah the example that they're already using it for is with the coffee machine , where , basically , you can program a sample wi  That when you say something it will give a response , and you program the response as well . So you can program your coffee-maker that when you say , good morning , to it it says , hello Rick , or whatever . user interface: it would be one thing if it was speech recognition where you say something and it turns the T_V_ on like , turn the T_V_ on , and i turns comes on , but it's not that . user interface: So , yeah , like what's the point of saying , Hello remote , hello , how how are you ? marketing: Oh , then then project manager: Yeah . marketing: I thought I thought it was when they said user interface: Yeah , if you're really lonely , it is it's marketing: I thought when they said , voice recognition , they meant  like , industrial designer: Channel five . industrial designer: Okay , so I'll go back , maybe , to the previous slide and we can decide for each problem , what we should choose . project manager: It's cheap , it's cheerful , it's worked , does work . Then the case , do you want it flat or curved or sing or double curved ? project manager: We were go we were going with the late with the the R_S_I_ rubber , weren't we ? user interface: Yeah , so we want it rub rubber double curved . industrial designer: Okay , so then if we use double curved case , then we have to u choose rubber push-buttons , project manager: Yep , but we're going for the simple buttons . industrial designer: and that's fine ? project manager: And it's cheapest all round , it sounds kinda funky , and we can also market it industrial designer: P user interface: Yeah . project manager: as i 'cause we were s saying earl you were saying earlier in your research that  the the people have the R_ people were getting the complaining about R_S_I_ , and this is anti-R_S_I_ . You industrial designer: I thought they would give an option of flat buttons or a project manager: You see , you can still get it does you still get repetitive strain injury , whether you are pressing a button or pressing a flat bit of screen . project manager: It's the v it's the fact that you are pressing the same doing the same movement . industrial designer: project manager: But the fact that this this rubber i is actually used in these anti-R_S_I_ ps specific marketing:  . marketing: Yeah , so they can sit there and go like user interface: Not that watching T_V_ should be that stressful . project manager: And you know , yeah , you can fuzz it across the room and throw it at throw it at your children yeah . marketing: user interface: Oh yeah , I guess T_V_ can be stressful , yeah , if you're watching sports .  I also took  Reissa's marketing findings from the last meeting into consideration  , 'cause I think that's that's crucial as far as  what keys we're going to inc inclu what buttons we are going to include and and how they're laid out . user interface:  and so the manufacturing division  sent some some samples of of  interface components that we might be interested in using that have been used in other products ,  like the coffee machine . It would just be probably the most expensive part of our remote without any actual interesting functionality as far as operating the T_V_ .  so yeah , they they also give the  they they suggested the idea of using a spinning wheel like you use on the side of an M_P_ three player like iPod . user interface:  so we've already addressed that and I think that would actually be worse for something like R_S_I_  you got that thumb movement that you're constantly doing . user interface: and I I have a feeling that we're interested in in something more general , but they suggested  , you know , going i a little bit into a a niche , like either gearing our remote towards kids , where you could have lot of colours  , the keys might be you know , funny or or , project manager: user interface: or  something for the elderly , where the remote's very large and the buttons are very large and there's only a few buttons . But you know we can we can discuss this , but it sounded like from our last meeting we really wanted something that was general , but done well . You don't want  you want people to be able to quickly access the buttons that they use a lot without  always pressing the wrong one  . And I didn't mention that we need a power button in our last I can give you an example here of  , good layout and bad layout industrial designer: user interface:  from our manufacturing department . So this would be an example of bad layout , where you have volume up and volume down , but they have a V_ on both of them , so  project manager: Yeah . user interface: And so , yeah , I th I think my personal preferences of we've all kind of talked about and seemed to be on the same page  . user interface: I didn't I didn't think the spinning-wheel or the  L_C_ display were were crucial for us . Well let's  so w what are our definite decisions on this then as a team ? The  The the  the interface type we're going for user interface: So we're we're not gonna have any sort of display I think  . user interface: ideally ,  a a power , channel up , channel down , volume up , volume down , and a numerical keypad . And some sort of it will either have a a lock button like we mentioned or or a cover or something like that . user interface: Well now that we've decided on our project manager: Are we gonna hav hav an are we d marketing: project manager: have we decided on whether w we're gonna s supplement it with anything , you know , colours or particular gimmicky bits to it , we're not we're just gonna go for something user interface:  it seems like we wouldn't wanna make it too busy and too sort of gaudy , project manager: We're marketing: Maybe we can user interface: but  Yeah , I would say mayb maybe a couple of colours like  like a black with with yellow and somewhere , like maybe the R_R_ can be yellow , or something like that . Let's move over to user interface: I I guess the fact  also that we are having a rubber case  would prevent us from having the cover function that we thought of before . user interface: 'cause  s so if we wanna have a lock of some sort it would have to be a button . user interface: But I think that should be   , I can speak with the button department , but  I think that it should be easy to have a button that just prevents prevents the other  the other buttons from operating . Well , I'm just basically letting you know what's happening in the markets project manager:  yeah . marketing: and also recent investigation that we've done in the remote control market , we have found that for the remote control market these are like most important aspects like that we really need to project manager: marketing: which we've already probably discussed . So the remote control has to look and feel fancier than the ones that already that we already have . So it has to be project manager: Yeah , why should people buy this when they're already got a remote that came with the T_V_ ? marketing: Yep . So project manager: What's that mean ? marketing: Technologically it should be like  work , basically , I guess . user interface: Well it should be it should be maybe cutting edge in some sense , marketing: Should user interface:  have something that's little more technologically advanced than what's on the market . project manager: Okay , now the trouble is is we've already decided that we're going with the stuff that works already , that's cheap . user interface:  it's different , but I wouldn't say like a rubber remote is fancy . marketing: That's why I was thinking , Bluetooth , 'cause if you like put up Bluetooth , and it's like a Bluetooth remote control , everybody's gonna like , oh , 'cause Bluetooth is the in thing nowadays , like it really is , like people and  when it comes to marketing like that's what people go for , they don't really care whether , you know , at the end of the day whether it works properly or not . marketing: Well , they do , but it's like it's not project manager: One hundred per cent , that's your first thing , you go , oh I'm not gonna buy that , 'cause I dunno if it works or not . project manager: Okay , well , what do you two think about this ? user interface: So is is the advantage of Bluetooth that you can just like synchronise it with other marketing: But like project manager: Yeah , what I don't understand what m user interface: electronics ? marketing: You could always insert , yeah . user interface: Yeah , that's basically what it allows you to do , project manager: Yeah , user interface: right ? project manager: and it this is just gonna all this is being used for is your television . marketing: Yeah , but , people like project manager: It would that would mean you'd need a television that has Bluetooth in it , which no no television does , marketing: Well , if you're looking at if you looking at something that's going to be bought by people , you have to make it new , you have to make it state of the art . industrial designer: Well project manager: does it ? That would mean we'd have to make a television as well . industrial designer: Bluetooth would , for example , enable you , I think , to   connect for example you if you get a w call on your mobile phone , but your mobile phone is downstairs or something , you would get on your television you're being called by this person right now . industrial designer: No i user interface: Yeah , the that wouldn't be the remote so much , project manager: Yeah , user interface:  project manager: and i industrial designer: No , but if you get Bluetooth on the remote , you'd be able to project manager: Nah , the televi the television would have to be a Bluetooth compatible , basically . marketing: Well , it doesn't project manager: An and there is no there is no such thing marketing: Like it doesn't have to be , you know , Bluetooth , that was just an idea , but like it needs do something that , you know , is new . Whether it's a battery it could be something really really minor , you know , like but I think we are really keeping to what is already out there , and people've already seen it , people've already got it . marketing: If we want something new , we need to move away from what we already have and  just go creative . It's been done for watches , but I haven't seen that for remotes , yet . marketing: project manager: The fact that it's made out of this rubber , we can throw it about . Th we should encourage people to throw their remote controls about , because it charges itself up by doing it . industrial designer: Yeah , well , and in little characters you say , yeah , but not too much . user interface: Yes , so can project manager: But yeah , by the squeezing it the marketing: I think , safety s user interface: Yeah , we can make the squeezing of the rubber be the be the generating like the energy generator . Next year's fashion i very much in fruit and vegetables are thm are like the theme for cloths , shoes and furniture . So next year people will be buying , I found this really funny , you know , strawberry shaped chairs , industrial designer: user interface: Okay , so we could have keys that are like a b like a broccoli key and a  and an avocado key on them .  and as it's rubber the feel which is in this year is spongy , so it's it's not quite spongy , but spongy , I would say is user interface: . And so personal what I was just saying like move away from the current remote controls  like the look and the feel of the current ones and change the look and feel , while still keeping to the company's image , basically . marketing: So we're moving in the right direction like project manager: Alright , yeah , no , this i this is good , user interface: Yeah . project manager: so through all that we've we go we're right , we're gonna go go back to  going with the kinetic thing , industrial designer: Yep . project manager: that's great , using the spongy rubber that we were talking about that anti-R_S_I_ you can as you squeeze it you are not only therapeuticising yourself , you are charging the batteries , marketing:  . project manager: industrial designer: sued the Beatles so user interface: Okay , we'll make it a  pomegranate , a big pomegranate . industrial designer: project manager: Well , okay , it seems like the only thing that we haven't really finally  agreed on is its image . Like , yeah , we're we're saying no we don't want it to be fruit and vegetables , but we dunno what it should be , user interface: . project manager: or like are we going yeah it looks slick , but what do what do we mean by slick sort of thing ? marketing: Well I think , if it's rubber it needs to be project manager:  you said earlier on i it should be funky . I think , it's it should be  , what do you associate with rubber ? You know like project manager: L keep it clean , keep it clean . industrial designer: marketing: Okay , sor I sorry , I used the wrong word , what do you associate with the mate the material that material ?  industrial designer: marketing:  like I'm just thinking bright colours . Wanna make it different colours so anybody can choo like like project manager: Like the volume buttons should be the all the same colour and the d and the the channel buttons should be one colour and stuff like that , do you mean ? user interface:  . Tha user interface: The one thing I'm wondering about , I hope that we're not going like too much down a gimmicky road of of having project manager: Yeah ,  we that's we we user interface:  if somebody go goes into the store they're gonna see like three or four normal remotes , and then a big spongy pink t tomato  remote . user interface:  what are ninety per cent of people gonna take ? marketing: Well I can say in this country , you'll get , you know , lots of people wanting something really funky and cool . project manager: marketing: And  parents will see the will see the pro as well , because it's  like kids won't break it , it's not breakable if you throw it around . The only thing is is that really small kids might chew on it , but project manager: Well , it's it's gotta be chew proof . marketing: So user interface: marketing: so it's rea it's quite project manager: marketing: it's quite like  user friendly industrial designer: marketing: and also for different families , like like family use as well , so for little kids and for old ki like teenagers will like it , I think . Especially maybe younger girls if it's in pink they'll be like pink remote control for their room something . project manager: So , what are you saying , maybe we should market it in different colours for different marketing: Yeah . project manager: so we could do like the pink range , the blue range , the green range , the industrial designer: That's yeah . marketing: So like you walk in , you're like , oh I like that remote control , because it's so bright , and then , and then the shop assistant comes up and says , oh what colour would you like ? and then they go like , oh I can choose the colour wow . So it puts , I think , even the customer into more control over what they're buying instead of , you've got all colour it's either that or nothing . user interface: Yeah  , that that seems to work well with for products like iPod , marketing: It's  user interface: where , you know , you have a variety of colours , that people feel like they're customising it when they buy it , even , you know , just just by the fact of choosing . industrial designer: Although I'd be curious to see how many  marketing: D you've got the industrial designer: You know , there are some colours that I wouldn I would never choose , and I would be curious how many people choose that colour . project manager: Well that's that can be down to bit of market researching you know , user interface: Right . Well  , we'll alright let's what we're gonna aim to get together by the next meeting then  is from you Catherine wi your y y you know you're gonna be working on the the look and feel design . project manager:  Gabriel , you're gonna be working on , you know come up with the the user interface design . project manager: come up ki you know , be ab for the next meeting be able to come in and show us some some i some physical ideas . project manager: We were kinda going , yeah , it's gotta feel nice , it's gotta look cool and that it's industrial designer: It is . project manager: you know now we can actually start , you know , s some sort of physical something or other . And I will be  industrial designer: marketing: project manager: talking to the bosses , basically , and  marketing: project manager: f fielding off some more spam and  industrial designer: Great . So we know for definite we know we've we've now got some definite things going on . project manager: we definitely know that  it's gonna be a simple buttons , we're not gonna be going for the new technological chip on print expensive things , so we've we're keeping the costs down . project manager: People , you know , people are saying , oh , standard stuff gives you repetitive strain injury , well this remote control is designed to do the complete opposite , marketing: Yeah . you know , we're gonna we we're gonna as a sort of extra something on it , you know what what extra things are there extra things this product have ? We'll look into this lock key user interface: Right . project manager: facility , although whether or not it happens , or is possible , I don't know , but something to look into . project manager: everyone know what they're doing ? 'Cause if you don't , you'll I'm sure you'll soon get an e-mail about it . project manager: It's  we're we've still couple of minutes until our meeting's due to finish . But  I got a note saying that you two who are gonna be working together marketing: project manager: so bef before you all disappear off just user interface: Okay , I'll stay in here . user interface: Does the pay-raise immediately come into effect on our next pay-check , or is that project manager:  I think , it's  , yeah , I think , it's gonna be par part more of a profit sharing on the product . industrial designer: marketing: user interface: So we're buying fut  , we're getting futures in the company . project manager: Yeah , I think i I think that's I think that's the way it's gonna happen at the moment . user interface: I'd like to share in the coffee machine profits , because that's really doing well . user interface: Well I I did notice looking at  , they told you that they wanted whatev our product to represent the the R_R_ brand and and to be immediately noticeable . user interface: if you look like at the coffee maker at the at the corporate web page , it's not obvious . Well it is to us , because we we worked worked here for years and we use that coffee machine , but it's doesn't have the colour scheme of of the of the company anywhere on it obviously it's just sil silver and black . project manager: And the spaceship doesn't have the R_ have a massive R_ and R_ down the side of it user interface: No 