user interface: Actually that makes sense , because I remember like , peopl I dunno if my Mom ever did it but I remember other people's Moms making like home-made Play-Doh where you just like make the colouring and make some sort of sort of dough . project manager: Okay , let's have your  let's get have the  presentation ? industrial designer: user interface: We've got some . So , everything  that we wanted we wanted it to be ergonomic and to be made out of rubber , very simple and easy to use , industrial designer: Double curved . user interface: yeah , double curved , marketing: user interface:  but also something that was gonna jump out at people , something that would be different  , separate it from the other remotes out on the market . So  I think if you put this in the palm of your hand , you'll see what a nice thing we have going here . user interface: So , basically , if you hold it like that , the one on your thumb , yeah , the thumb button is the power button . user interface: Your index finger is channel up , middle finger is channel down , ring finger is volume up , your pinkie is volume down . marketing: What's the big blue thing ? user interface: That's the lock button , has a L_ L_ on it marketing: Oh cool . user interface:  and then then you can also there's a numeric keypad on the top so you can key directly to the to the channel if you want . user interface: So it's really basic functionalities as far as what keys are available , but we think it's very comfortable and very innovative and it looks different . marketing: user interface: So all the ,  the important keys are right at your f f you know right at  at a convenient place for you to to access them .  if that's too big , it's a rubber remote , so you can , you know project manager: Yeah . So d does that  what mesh with what you guys were hoping and for and expecting or does it marketing: Oh it's so cute . industrial designer: project manager: I have one thing about it , but it's a small thing , but it'd mean we'd have to make a right-handed one and a left-handed one . user interface: Yeah , if we build rocket ships why can't we build left-handed and right-handed  remotes . user interface: Yeah , I didn't I didn't think about that , but I'd yeah , . marketing: Yeah , but then but then you can learn to use your right h like I was just thinking if there's left-handers and right-handers in the family , what , they have two remotes ? project manager: Yes s industrial designer: Yeah , I know I know people who have left-handed and right-handed people in the family and they all use the computer for the whole the same computer the fes family and they have a mouse , and everybody is using right-handed mouse . marketing:  it's only pressing buttons , you don't have to do anything , you know , extraordinary . industrial designer: Imagine you're doing it with your left hand , I don't think it's too marketing: Yeah , it's not industrial designer: But we can have both  marketing: Yeah . project manager: But  other than that ,   and that's  , you know , that's just something , I think I think it's great , yeah , great idea . user interface: Do you think it says R_R_ ? industrial designer: I think it does . user interface: project manager: I think it's , well , if the R_R_ motto is , we bring fashion to to electronics , I'd say that could be quite fashionable . user interface: So that's that's our end of things wha  project manager: Yeah , very good , yeah . user interface: That's project manager: It's come up with what we've you know , the things that's what we've what we were looking at doing , hasn't it , all seems to be there . marketing: And all the playing around is  project manager:  before we move on marketing: Yeah , I'm just do you wanna plug in ? project manager: I need that cable . user interface: The costs , was that what you said ? industrial designer: Play-Doh is very cheap . project manager:  marketing: Play-Doh won't last very long everybody'll go like , oops , it's gone . Okay , now I think we'll do this I could do you know , I can do this o on my own or I could do it with you , marketing: Yeah . project manager: but it's just easy enough to go through it with you , so we're going for the kinetic power . project manager: And the electronics , we decided on it being just a simple , the easiest thing that's inside it . And button supplements well they're in diff special colours , aren't they ? marketing: Yeah . marketing: It's better for project manager: Special form , yeah , they're a special form there in shapes and stuff . user interface: Yeah , these these ones on the side are curved kind of , so marketing: And special material . They're not made out of wood or titanium or rubber or anything , they're just simple user interface: The buttons are rubber . project manager: So , user interface: And we're actua actually making a better profit than we expected . user interface: project manager: Okay , let's just save this so I can e-mail it to you . This is where we all get to I get to write on the , oops , on the board . And we have to do it on a scale of one to seven , one being true , so it's it's more like it's fits the criteria , and seven being as in it doesn't fit the criteria . And the criterias are , and I'll draw this up on the board so we have a box . So the does remote look and feel fashionable to what we talked about ? As it is it colour-wise and is it spongy ? user interface:  . marketing: So what mark should we give for that ? project manager: I would give it a seven . Have we implemented new technology ? As in the new high-tech industrial designer: Well , the kinetic thing , yeah . That was our main technological innovation w every everything else was fairly simple , but the fact that we used the kinetic energy was new . So we'll give it a industrial designer: Well so the  user interface: It's ergonomic , marketing: user interface: but that's not that's that's a design that's a des that's a design thing , yeah . project manager: Yeah , but that's not a technological thing , that's another thing , i that's another marketing thing . marketing: Two , project manager: 'cause i i it i it i it is more geared for right-handed people than left-handed people , but marketing: so it's user interface: Okay . marketing: But if we make a right-handed and a left-handed then ? user interface: If we're gonna have one left-handed and one right-handed then I would give it a one , but otherwise otherwise a two . marketing: 'cause people like a lot le like So it's a one ? project manager: Yeah . And criteria seven , which is the last one , does it get lost ? industrial designer: It's yellow . marketing: Is it easy to get lost ? project manager: I don't think it's gonna get lost easily . user interface: It's not the kinda thing that's gonna slip like between a couch cushion or something , you know . project manager:  it marketing:  it's not fully it's not fully like you can't say project manager: No ,  marketing: it's not a one , definitely . project manager: Okay , I I think  I just wanna put in as Project Manager the you know , little bit of praise for everybody here for how they've worked on it , user interface: project manager: you know , both individually and as a team . You know you've w everyone's come up with their own individual ideas in their own different departments ,  and then come together and worked in , you know , integrally , you know , at the right times , psp , you know , especially you two . marketing: project manager: That's all , you know , gone very very well user interface: Yeah . user interface: Yeah , during our design  there was some s some heated heated discussion , industrial designer: user interface: but we we kept we tried to keep it cool and and project manager: Did you have to go down to the the corporate squash court and bash a few balls about ? marketing: user interface: just just industrial designer: Well . user interface: We just had to we just had to squeeze our product a little bit and marketing: industrial designer: You know project manager: industrial designer: marketing: project manager: Fantastic . Think we're the we're the envy of all the of all the other R_R_ teams , . project manager: I think So marketing: project manager: I I , you know , and I think we've co we have come we've come up with something new , something that hasn't been done before , we haven't we're not just rehashing an old design . project manager: You know , maybe this isn't a simulation , maybe this is actually so it's like Sony or someone like that they're they're just , yeah , they get marketing: user interface: Yeah I think they're actually trying to find ideas for a ideal remote . user interface: project manager: Ex exactly that product marketing: user interface: project manager:  thum we'll go , yeah , we designed that and no-one will believe us . user interface: marketing: project manager: But  user interface: So at this stage , is this the last meeting of the project ? We don't  have another one after it's gone gone to marke market or something ? marketing: Yeah . project manager: No , marketing: project manager: I think when this meeting's finished like officially , there b we'll get a  questionnaire to fill in . marketing: industrial designer: Y Oh really ? user interface: project manager: Or six ,  marketing: Just start summarising now . user interface: So there's no way to like predict what our 'Cause we had a we originally had a As far as our financial   goals , we had a specific number for profits that we wanted . It was fifty mil fifty million marketing: Was it was it fifty or five ? user interface: I don't remember . But there's not a way to compute that , since we saved on the on the production cost , do we know how much we're making on profit ? project manager: It gets handed over to another department . When it c when it comes to all the other things of how to sell it and , you know , the b the profits and all that that's other departments it's another team that actually work out the mai the user interface: But we have a vested interest project manager: oh yeah , the all the guys in the profit sharing , yeah . You know , we've we've we've made i we've made marketing: We finished an hour earlier . project manager: we've designed the product , we've ma we've got the prototype , it's within budget , it's does everything that we wanted it to do . It's new , it's it's  something that  that isn't out there already . user interface: I think actually and one advantage of of this is that after the  , you know , after this fad of fruit and vegetables passes this will still be c a cool remote , you know . user interface: We're not we're not you know , tying tying our cart to that one horse . project manager: Well , this is very marketable in that it is it's it's something that's kind of new and looks a bit quirky for people who want that , marketing: Definitely . project manager: it's that it's  , hang on , I wrote it down here somewhere industrial designer: user interface: project manager: Oh no I thi I put it in one of my e-mails that I sent off .  that , you know , it's marketable in the sense that it's whilst all these other remotes  actually do give you repetitive strain injury , our one does the complete opposite , you know , user interface:  . project manager: so that's something that's new , which is one of the criteria they asked us to come up with something with something new . project manager: Yeah , and if you're not having a good time with the T_V_ , you can f throw it about , you know . marketing: Just don't sh don't throw it at any of the ornaments and break them . marketing: project manager: In the corporate bar that's next to the corporate swimming pool on the top floor that we're that've all just gained access to . industrial designer: user interface: I guess it's probably better that we wrap it up than have five minutes of silence . project manager:  how does everyone feel about the technology that's been used in this ? The sort of using of the the pens and writing on these special pads and all that ? marketing: I love it . project manager: I thi you know , I'd I'd n yeah , as we said earlier , I've not never seen that before .  , but a p a pen with a camera on it , I don't think it's such a new thing . It would be different if it was sort of hand writing recognition stuff , but as it's not industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: it's literally that'll come up on a computer screen as a picture file rather than actual text . user interface: Right , I think they do want to do hand writing recognition on that , it's just the first step 