As you can see our agenda is to open up the meeting ,  become acquainted with each other ,  have a little training on tools ,  create a plan , discuss things and and we only have twenty minut twenty five minutes total . Okay , so we'll have a functional design individual work  with meeting and then conceptual design t and then detailed design . Kate , why don't you try it first , if you can either bring your things with you , I guess industrial designer:  yeah , if I can pick up with all these bits and pieces , hang on . project manager: And while you're doing that we'll try and figure out how to hook these things on as well , 'cause we're all gonna have to be able to walk around . project manager: industrial designer: Do you have to be able to recognise what animal it is ?  project manager:  I do not think so , user interface: Are we all gonna draw a cat ? project manager: I think it's just to try out the whiteboard . user interface: project manager: industrial designer: You can tell it's not a bunny rabbit by the ears . And the characteristics ? industrial designer:  the favourite characteristics of the cat  the whiskers I think ,  because they're the easiest to draw . Kate ? industrial designer: user interface: And they sit on your shoulder and whisper the answers to your homework in your ear when you're doing your homework . industrial designer: Gosh , user interface: A shark ? industrial designer: why didn't I think of fish ? That's even easier to draw than cat . marketing:  I like them because they're sleek project manager: Favourite characteristics ? marketing: and they have a lot of freedom but they also do n  swim in groups , project manager: 'Kay . industrial designer: marketing: Do you have a favourite one ? project manager: I'm afraid I'm with Steph . But I'm afraid I take the coward's way out , and the cat's looking the other way . Now  we have to get down to the nitty-gritty of how to make this and this remote control has to be sold  we're to sell it for twenty five Euros , with a profit aim ultimately of fifty million Euros .  would be an awful lot of these , would be like what , a hundred million of them  to make twenty five Euros on each one and to make a total profit of fifty million . Now if they cost twelve and a half , you're selling it for twenty five , you're making twelve and a half Euros each .  and we're to make a profit of fifty million , that's t  can you do the maths and how many are we selling ? marketing:  yeah . I was just wondering if that's the  If fifty percent is normal project manager: Mark-up ? marketing: B yeah . project manager: marketing: And and your question is how many do we have to sell ? project manager: Yes , 'cause our market  is international and your problem is has to do with marketing of you know , you gotta know how many we're going to be selling to know how big a market you have to target and who is that . Yeah , that's  project manager: To give you a pretty good idea of where you're looking . In order to make fifty million Euros , and you're only getting twelve and a half each marketing: And if we make Any of you use of remote control for a television or D_V_D_ or something ? You're both nodding , industrial designer: That that that's the sorta product we're talking about , one that will work for a in a home environment , for a T_V_s and marketing: Yeah . Well I've seen some remote controls that are for more than one device at a time , but I also have heard about them not working well or not well co-ordinated and you wind up working with this one for thi this three and then this one over here for another . user interface: It is true that you always sit around you know , you're sitting on your sofa and you wanna change something , there's five different remotes , and one for the D_V_D_ and one for the video and one for cable and one for whatever else . marketing: project manager: Are there any  ideas for the remote ? What would it be for and what group would be be for ? We have to think about that one . Like I've got one at home that has well , apart from the obvious , channels , channel up , channel down , volume , marketing: Yeah . user interface: you know , subtitles , mute , there's a lotta buttons that I've got no idea what they do , like . marketing: because I think one of the things that being somewhat computer literate , we tend to  go to menus and then make choices , you know , so if it's like an  volume button , you know , you can go in and say mute or or volume . We don't need to have like the l the numbers if we also have   channel up channel down . project manager: but the I think that's the industrial design is the first one , industrial designer:  . project manager: And user , that's you S Steph , for the technical functions design , and for marketing the user requirements specification . I think there's going to be a lot of we have to help each other and work through this as a group , and I think we all , you know , we like our kitty-cat and our rat and our fish , but I think we all have to like each other  to get this done .  as it says , we're gonna get individual instructions , but  I don't think they allowed a lot of extra time , so I think a little bit of less of this and more at do will set us in good stead .  then I don't see any reason to prolong it and f we should finish this meeting at ni right now and go into other things 