Welcome to the what should be the last of these meetings and  it looks like we've  done a good job here and  we'll just go through the the final  the final details .  okay , oh the  th the the minutes of the last meeting  I think we'll take those as read ,  Okay industrial designer: project manager: the  th the the next  thing we we we'll have a look at the  th have a look at the prototypes and  look at the  evaluation criteria and finance and then   just tidy up with production and  and then we can close . industrial designer:  okay we basically have the same kinda lay-out here it's just  you hold it like this and it gets kinda moulded to the to the shape of your hand , basically .  on the left we've got the scroll for the volume , on the right we have buttons for the channels up and down and that kinda so you can hold it and scroll , or you can hold it and and push . project manager: industrial designer:  this is the power key ,  it's kinda like the biggest so you know how to turn on . This is the infra-red section so you g it'll be sending rays and if you're you know pointing it like that it can send it , project manager: Yep , industrial designer: or if you hold it up like that it'll send it . industrial designer: so you can you know talk to it like that project manager: Yep , industrial designer: and it'll still understand . industrial designer: and has the cover on it user interface: S industrial designer: and you can see like it just kinda goes the red bit's the cover and it kinda goes over everything project manager: Yep , yep , industrial designer: and then there's holes for the buttons to come through . user interface: And so we figured it would be kind of you know a light weight plastic , project manager: -huh . user interface: and then the covers will be that sort of rubbery material like they make iPod covers , project manager: showing me age , user interface: so they kinda just stretch over . user interface: I I didn't know that but yeah they're kind of it's just kind of a rubbery project manager: -huh . user interface: and that way you know project manager: Okay , user interface: spongy like is something that people wanted project manager: yep , right . user interface: and that way I think probably helps protect it a little bit too as well project manager: Okay . industrial designer: But it's also e e easier to put on versus like mobile covers user interface: and industrial designer: you actually have to screw them on and stuff and you kinda sometimes have to get someone to do that for you . user interface: and then the buttons come through and so and then the each one of 'em on the very end will have the logo with the yellow circle and the R_R_ . project manager:  tha it's it's a detailed point , I just wondered  h how will people put these down I wonder ? user interface: Like that . Okay for some strange re reason I had it in my mind that they'd put them down vertically industrial designer: Yeah it could stand , yeah . industrial designer: Well we could broaden the broaden it out a bit project manager: Yeah ,  no industrial designer: so it would stand like that . project manager: because particularly if they've dif if they're gonna have it as a you know as a fashion item industrial designer: Yeah , standing . project manager:   it it's  it it's just  it's just a minor detailed point , but  as you say you can just make the base a little bit bigger and  industrial designer: Yeah , we could just widen it out  project manager: Yeah and  it just needs another  another logo somewhere is is is is all it gives gives people the option and if if say if they've got them  industrial designer:  . project manager: because actually have several upon the  marketing: Could have one for your stereo , one for your D_V_ player . industrial designer: Have to if we just lengthen it I guess project manager: Yeah industrial designer: so it comes down to the base of the hand user interface: Yeah , project manager: but that that's  but  user interface: just kind of industrial designer: and then flatten it out project manager: no industrial designer: and could sit there . user interface: Somewhere like that project manager: no no ,  that's these  user interface: so it just sort of industrial designer: We might have to lengthen it marketing: Yeah I kinda had a a kinda a natural kind of a idea industrial designer: so it kinda your hand still holds it and have it there , user interface: Yeah . marketing: where it's like more of a kind of like a kinda maybe slightly like thinner , user interface: Bu project manager: Yeah . marketing: yeah , kinda like that kinda like a flower or a plant project manager: But  yeah but no th but the yeah the the the industrial designer:  . project manager: Yeah , yeah , yeah , industrial designer: The final product would actually stand up , yeah . project manager: I think the  the basic concept i i is is absolutely bang on industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: and the i industrial designer: Wee project manager: it certainly meets our criteria of being  of you know looking different . industrial designer: project manager:  right let us  What's on the next one ? Oh right yes , let's have a look at the  f finance .  , now we're given a a clear design brief ,  if I get the  spreadsheet up . Good , this is why we need to make these things simple so that the  the the the boss can understand . industrial designer: user interface: marketing: project manager: Now I've  this is the company's   costing for for various   aspects of design and I I I've treated some of these slightly  liberally given the constraints placed on us ,  I wouldn't know for in for instance if if they require us to have it in the corporate colours , then that is not a special colour , that's a that's a standard colour .  , so we're just simply on batteries , the the one th the one decision I've had to make is that  we're we will have to find a s a regular standard chip to to do this with and I I  I'm I'm I'm certain that they they are around so ,  that I don't think is a a serious problem . The  the the voice sensor is is expensive but we we made a a basic decision that that was absolutely fundamental to the to the design so that that has to stay .  then again the the the the shape of the case means that it's it's expensive to   l to make 'cause of the the th the double curves but on the other hand because of our overall fashion concept  we we should exceed the the sales targets .  it's simply made of plastic so th that's  that's no problem and   just because the whole the colour of the the whole thing that's   there's some cost there .  and  we haven't actually got a scroll wheel we we we got push buttons and and a simple   slider so  and the and the the buttons are   well I do don't know that they're special colour . Anyway the the costings  come in at exactly on target at twelve point five  but I thi I think we have a a very strong case to argue that  what what we've got is is so in innovative and  and different that  any any slight compromise we have to make on on cost is is offset by the  you know the  you know the the the the concept of it being a a fashion accessory and and having the the interchangeable covers industrial designer:  . project manager: so   you know the if if if the management expect us to be techno again fail again technologically innovative  that they they have to accept that we we can't operate absolutely within  the constraints that they give , industrial designer:  . project manager: so  we we we present this as the  the company's  the the company's way forward and   I I think we can argue that we we have  come in on on budget . Does anybody want to   Andrew do you want what do you want to say about  the  yeah the evaluation marketing: Evaluation . project manager: where where you know well where where we're where where we're at ? marketing: The the product or the project ? project manager: The the the well the I meant the product . Method of evaluation testing the product was to just if it met all the criteria all the conditions that we set out to set out to solve , from the point of view of the the consumer and the management . So what I've been asked to do is , on the whiteboard project manager: marketing:  gauge our team response to these questions . And then at the end just take an average project manager: Tr On for true and seven for flase . marketing: Easy to use ? project manager: I don't see we could've made it any easier . And  , what else ? The R_S_I_ compares to the current standards , project manager: Less buttons so it must be . We we industrial designer: Yeah marketing:  yeah it was our it was a industrial designer: it is sorta the the handle more ergonomically correct as well . marketing:  will device appeal to all age groups ? project manager: I think it will because   old older people who can't manage the buttons anyway will actually probably like the like like the voice bit so industrial designer:  . Well we had the we had the data saying that old people will be less likely to pay extra money but the funct the increased functionality , the e ease of use of the device might make up for that . project manager: well I don't think we're actually charging a particular premium anyway , in the end , so industrial designer: I I I think it will tend to appeal more to younger aged groups marketing:  . industrial designer: and the younger people tend to would be more conscious of that aspect of it , but  I think it should still appeal on a certain level to everybody , yeah . project manager: It will appeal f for dif for different reasons but it's it's  industrial designer: Yeah , yeah . user interface: Yeah I think just the simplicity of it project manager: yeah yeah industrial designer: Yeah , yeah . user interface: and project manager: so I I yeah I user interface: not having to learn to programme industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: Yeah , so I think we can reasonably say it's another another one , industrial designer:  . marketing: project manager: why not ? industrial designer: user interface: marketing:  can you just click the my mouse to move onto next page ?  , yeah and what h did we make the management's project manager: in in in in my interpretation of management's instructions  is that yes it it meets the requirement industrial designer: project manager: is t it's television only , industrial designer: Yep . project manager:  it's it's it's within budget , user interface: Under the cost . project manager: coming up with what marketing: So  one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven . project manager: Before I  industrial designer: user interface: Ps I don't think so , project manager: No . user interface: and looked really at what the consumers wanted and what we were trying to make project manager: Yeah . user interface: and come to group consensus and project manager: Well that's right ,  th this this slide here  the satisfaction with  room for creativity ,  industrial designer:  . project manager: I think we've allowed ourselves  as much creativity as the  the the the product  allows . project manager:  I won't comment on leadership ,  teamwork I think we've  I think everybody's  worked pretty well together . project manager:  we've just about coped with the whiteboard and digital pens ,  I think the results speak for itself industrial designer:  . project manager: and new ideas found , again gi no given relatively everyday product , I think we've v very  very effectively come up with a a new  user interface: Yeah . Is the project evaluated ? We're we're all happy that it it meets all the criteria ,  industrial designer: Yep . project manager: Thank you very much indeed , I think that I think that's  industrial designer: Cool , thank you , user interface: Alright 