So basically we've got three things , and we've got forty minutes in which to  for this meeting to  to discuss the various options . industrial designer: We have a I guess we have a presentation each , 'cause I've got one .  so do we want to do the presentation first , or do we want to  W I I got  or or three things basically ,  relating to the remote being only for T_V_ . project manager: So in fact it actually f we won't be forestalled in a sense . user interface: What is it ? industrial designer: I'm not quite sure how it user interface: I think you've got to do  control F_ eight . user interface: Ah there , marketing: Oh hang on , user interface: it's doing something .  I've just got three sections , first is the research I made on the on the remote control itself  . And then also the methods in which these components interact together for the remote to actually do what you want it to do and how it connects with the television . industrial designer: We then have the user interface , which is basically the like the the buttons on the actual remote . And then the sender , which  is usually , I've found , an infra-red device which sends a signal to the actual television .  and the last part is receiver which is important in the system but is not actually part of the remote itself , because that's obviously found in the television .  I'm gonna have to actually draw on the board because  it was a little tricky on PowerPoint to get this working , so . S   do we have a cloth to wipe this down with , or ? Oh I'll j project manager:  there's the rubber on the right , I think . Okay , so we start off with a  battery suppl  no , a power supply which we'd probably get it's probably gonna be the battery .  we then have a particular button , which may be that's obviously there's lots and lots of different buttons .  that sends after you press that that sends the message to the chip , which  then sends It sort of interprets which button you've pressed and then sends the appropriate message to the sender . That's the remote in itself , that's the components of the remote and how they work together .  this is the chip itself , which then , and that's the that's the infra-red sender . going on to personal preferences , I've said that battery seems the best option for the actual remote , just because of the size . You don't want a a cable attached to the remote otherwise it's not it's not really a remote .  and then the sender , marketing: industrial designer: and infra-red  has been used quite successfully .  so the m basic method of this is to send a signal from the remote to the television set , so that a desired function is performed .  an example of the function could be to change the volume up or down ,  so obviously you need two different buttons for that .  by the look of it they both have  kind of play and fast forward , rewind functions , so I think they incorporate a kind of video function which we won't have to worry about . So , it's got nice big buttons , it's got a very limited number of buttons .  I like the use of the kind of  symbols like the triangles and the squares and the arrows as well as the words on the  kind of play functions and all that . user interface: Will you be presenting that in a bit ? project manager: But  I got  I got an email that basically said to  make sure that  whatever device we come up with at the end of the day had to incorporate  the corporate colour and slogan . So  I'm guessing that   I notice on the bottom there it's got  what's that ? A_P_O_G_E_E_ that might be the corporate colour scheme , although the only the only colour I can see in that is the red . industrial designer: Would you be able to get rid of the the extra buttons here , the the sort of circular section , because that seems to be for a video as well . So we could dispense with that little bit as well and just get it down to just the numbers and the volume . Possibly ? user interface: What do you mean by the circular section ? industrial designer: J yeah yeah yeah j yeah user interface: Like all of that bottom bit ? project manager: industrial designer: just this little bit is that I think that's still  a video remote part , user interface: Yeah . project manager: Well b  w user interface:  how often do you use seven , eight and nine ? I think just one to six and then channel up and down should be enough . project manager: Well th the on the user interface: Like how often do you hit nine ? project manager: Well  for for general television purposes obviously you have channels one to five at this point in time , marketing: But but industrial designer: It's just people are used to seeing that , so if we didn't have them then they might think it's project manager: But , well possibly but the the other thing is that with  the current expansion of  channels  in the process of taking place , certainly the button up and down , but   how many channels do we have to  actual television channels do we have to  prepare for ? I would have thought that  it's forever expanding and at the moment we've got although you've onl you've got the five standard , you've got the B_B_C_ have come up with a further six industrial designer: project manager: and  there's  I don't know exactly how many channels there are on  when you take into account  Sky and various other  various others . project manager: So I would've thought that we wouldn't , you know , rather user interface:  . project manager: Okay , if the time of flicking from one to other , but presumably it'll take a second user interface: project manager: 'cause you have to be able to stop it . Maybe you could have a fast forward on the on the channels that w and then you could dispense with more otherwise . industrial designer: user interface:  some remotes have kind of favourite options where if you always flick from channel one to channel six ,  if that's a favourite you just like by-pass two to five . industrial designer: project manager: Yeah , I s I suppose in a sense you could have  if you've got a hundred channels then if you had sort of an easy way of getting rather than having to go one to a hundred , you could go one to one to ten , ten to twenty industrial designer: user interface:  . project manager: and then have a second button to get you to the actual channel you want marketing: user interface: But I think a lot of  like Cable and Sky and stuff , that would be tuned to one channel , and then you'd have another remote for all of those channels . industrial designer: I suppose with nine you've got the the like the last one which makes the tenth means you  it's like  multiples you can put them together so you can make any number . industrial designer: So with that we'd kind of by-pass any problems with project manager: Yeah Well that's true , yeah , industrial designer: Yeah .  I think that's just for a video , so we wouldn't need any of that at all . industrial designer: So we could get it down to what ? project manager: If it's just for T_V_ , which is what it is at the moment . industrial designer: So we get to How many buttons have we got ? We've just got ten , eleven twelve th We got fourteen that we need . Well we've we've got  that it's remote for T_V_ only otherwise project would become too complex with  which would endanger the time to market was one of the considerations . project manager: I'm I don't know d did you have that information behind the marketing , marketing: project manager: or was I meant to give you that information ? marketing:  I'm not sure . project manager: Right , okay , so basically time to market seems to be important , therefore speed of delivery . industrial designer: user interface: marketing: user interface: Okay , so is everyone happy with that ? industrial designer: Ah yes yes , that seems good . industrial designer: marketing: Right , we've done some research into the functional requirements that people want out of their remote control . And first off we should state that th the remote control's for controlling the T_V_ and  how do people use it ? We asked them sort of which buttons were useful for them .  how d how does a remote control look and feel for them , and what improvements would would they like to remote control . And we did that by sort of giving them a questionnaire that we'd prepared and asking them to fill in the answers . And three quarters of them found that remote controls are ugly and that a sort of even higher proportion would spend more for a sort of s  a fancier remote control And that of all the buttons on the remote control , the sort of setting buttons for sort of the picture picture and brightness and the audio settings ,  they weren't used very often at all . And young people were quite receptive to this , but as soon as we got sort of over about into a thirty five to forty age forty five age group and older , people people weren't quite so keen on speech recognition . There's a lot more th there's a lot lot more older people who didn't know whether they wanted it or not as well .  we also asked what frustrated people about remote controls and the number one frustration was that the remote was lost somewhere else in the room and that they couldn't find it . And the second second biggest frustration what that if they got a new remote control , it was difficult to learn  all the buttons and all the functions , and to find your way around it . Okay , so My personal preferences from the marketing is that we need to come up with some sort of sleek sort of good looking high high-tech A design which looks high-tech , basically .  and that we should come up with fewer buttons than most of the controls on the market , and we should sort of concentrate on the channels and sort of power , and also volume and that sort of thing , as as Louisa said .  we could maybe come up with a menu , a sort of a an L_C_D_ menu for other functions on the remote control .  and maybe we could think about speech recognition as well , because  sort of young people are perhaps the ones that are gonna buy buy our new product if we aim it at sort of you know sort of a high-tech design . And we could maybe think about using speech recogniti recognition as a way to find the remote control if it's lost in a room , rather than sort of  having it to speech recognition to change the channels . 'Cause there's a problem with that in that the television makes noise , so it could end up talking to itself and changing its channel . project manager: What was that last wee bit there ? user interface: Do a lot of  marketing:  about speech recognition ? project manager: Speech recognition , user interface: marketing: Yeah . marketing: Youn young people pref Yeah , they s they said that they'd be interested in a remote control which offered that possibility and as you go up through the age groups , people got less and less interested in sort of a a remote control that you could talk to , so . industrial designer: No what I maybe think is  it seems the technology would be quite advanced for that and they might end up costing more than our twelve fifty budget for for the speech recognition . industrial designer: And possibly the thing about the about the remote being lost we could have You know with your mobile phone , you lose that and you can ring it . Maybe we can have some kind of sensor which is kept somewhere where you can some kind of buzzer system between the two . Yeah , we'd have t that would mean we'd have to put two products together as well , industrial designer: That is true , yes . user interface: There's key rings  that you kind of whistle at or clap at , I can't remember , and then they whistle back , or something like that . So industrial designer: So I guess it'd be something we could like attach to the or like the same technology could be put inside the inside the remote . project manager: Well if you're trying to avoid having a second product 'cause obviously you could have a second product that gave you the right pitch which would set the remote off to say here I am sort of thing , you know without sound recognition .  I dunno  talking about vo  obviously if you've got voice recognition then you can do it in that way because it'll recognise the voice and you can give it a command , a set command whatever that happened to be . project manager: But you've then got the point if if you're not going with  voice recognition then industrial designer: you could have an option to turn it off . industrial designer: So that would solve the problems with the T_V_ kind of speaking to the remote and changing its own channels . marketing: project manager: So  Any sugges Well , any conclusions ? marketing:  would it take quite a while to sort of develop the speech recognition software in the remote control ? user interface: project manager: Well if it does then we can't . project manager: because we've got  th th three  primary   requisites from  from and email  that was sent to me whereby we had The design logo was one , which we've already mentioned . We've got  the remote was only for the television and not for because that would make it too complex and we have to get it market quickly . project manager: And the  third thing was that  teletext  as far as  the management is concerned ,  is becoming dated  due to the popularity of the internet . project manager: So we're being focused effectively directly at a television and it seems to me that the management is  wanting us to go down a narrow path and not opening out . project manager: So anything that  is to be added , such as voice recognition et cetera has to be very simple and has to be very quick industrial designer: Has to be simple enough to project manager: because time to market is is critical . S industrial designer: I suppose if we could get something in which was quite quick and simple that would give us an advantage over the other remotes . project manager: Added extras would be nice , but the primary consideration is to get the project finished within  this short time window , which effectively now is sort of four hours .  d d I think I think first and foremost we've gotta get to the end and then get to the end with  added extras if possible . project manager: and how we were planning to proceed so that at the next  meeting each person that's got a a a task to do is clear from this meeting what that task is . And then we can report back at the next meeting and say right okay yes , we've achieved this or we haven't achieved this , this is how far we've progressed . project manager: So we have to come effectively to the decision on the remote functions so that you can decide what you're gonna be doing . And if dur between the time of this meeting finishing and the next meeting starting , if you get any additional information that  only you have at that point in time you'd think would be relevant to other people in terms of their des decision making  process , then we should communicate that as quickly as possible and not wait until the next meeting . project manager: so that rather than coming you know If you get the information just before the next meeting that's fine . Come along with it in the next meeting , we can discuss it then and take whatever action is appropriate . project manager: But if you get it well before the next meeting , let everybody else know 'cause that might have an impact on their  on what they come up with effectively at the next meeting . project manager: Right , is there marketing: So do we need to decide on the functions now ? S project manager: I would guess so . user interface: Well I think it'd be really easy and it'd be a big advantage if we did have some sort of  kind of whistle back kind of function . marketing: Yeah and Yeah and that was that was the number one sort of frustration that people said , so . user interface: marketing: I don't think there's anything else on the market that does that , so . project manager: I w well  i industrial designer: Maybe we should concentrate just on the whistle back function at the moment , project manager: Something simple .  if if our primary consideration is to get it there in time , time's short , industrial designer: and if something comes back project manager: you want something to meet the major concerns of the consumer so that we can have that as a selling point for the product , user interface: user interface: And that wouldn't put off the kind of older generation either , 'cause everyone can whistle or clap , and they wouldn't have to be kind of scared of this new technology . project manager: On the basis that if we've got if we're catering to the whole age range , you want something that's easy to do , industrial designer: project manager: now something that doesn't like whis  marketing: No not everyone can whistle , can they , though ? project manager: Well I I I don't know . Well If you think that more people can whistle than clap then that's fine , then go for that option , user interface: project manager: but if I would have thought that more people could clap rather than whistle , marketing: No , industrial designer: I'd go more marketing: clapping , I think clapping , industrial designer: Yeah , f more for clap . user interface: 'Kay we've already decided that we don't need a teletext button , haven't we ? project manager:  . Ef effectively that's what the that's what they're saying , user interface: Is that one of the project manager: that  if  if people are now using the internet then you don't need teletext , user interface:  . industrial designer: and then the the little digit next to it which kind of enabled you to put them together . I think nowadays you can just get ones where it gives you a sort of a second or two to press another number , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: Okay , ten numbers user interface: industrial designer: and then some kind of device to allow  marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: Did we decide anything about  the other functions ? As in setting the audio and tuning it and stuff like that ? You had an had an idea about the menu ? marketing:  we could possibly put an L_ a sort of a L_C_D_ menu in , but that again is probably an expense that industrial designer: But just thinking  people probably  you don't have you only have to probably tune in the T_V_ once , but you have to be able to tune it that once . industrial designer: So and if finally the T_V_ breaks , you get a new one , you're gonna have to be able to tune it . project manager: But the but that's relying on the television market changing to an automatic industrial designer: So that'll be in marketing: Yeah . But at the moment it's not , so it seems to me that you have to have a device that caters , 'cause otherwise it would make it  your device would become inoperable , or only operable in certain circumstances industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: And it's also m it's the the product we've got is something that's at the I would have said the lower end of the s of the cost scale , so we're not really going for something that's  terribly high-tech . I s I suppose  if people are buying remotes , then they're probably buying it to replace another remote project manager: Possibly . marketing:  we're maybe talking about replacing remotes for slightly older televisions , so we maybe need to keep the the tuning function in . industrial designer: Would you maybe have like one menu button , then you'd use the other buttons , maybe the number buttons to actually do the separate functions . user interface: and it was too dark , so I had to go through it and turn the brightness up . industrial designer: and then a menu function and maybe sort of a slightly more advanced  instruction booklet to come with it , to guide Presu  I think it'd be quite hard just for people to grasp  just off like the menu use different buttons you maybe have to have like some better instructions of how that would actually work . marketing:  I'm not sure whether the sort of having people have a booklet 'cause one the second most annoying thing that people found was having to learn the new one . marketing: So maybe next to each of the buttons , you know each of them could have a number and then also a function written next to it , so you're basically pressing industrial designer: that also goes back to the original design when we saw those two , and there was the one on the left hand side which had all like the double functions and stuff which kind of looked too busy and had too much on it , so . user interface: Well , if we're trying to keep it slee sleek and sexy as well , have you seen those remotes where kind of  the bottom bit slides down , so there's kind of  everything else revealed ? marketing: Okay . user interface: So you don't use it that much , you don't have to see it all the time . project manager: Right we've got five minutes before we wind up this meeting , so I've been told . And that'll be better for the older generation as well 'cause , well my dad doesn't like anything that you've got to kinda flick through a menu , project manager: Ah . industrial designer: So  we're gonna have to have to work out what's gonna be on these other functions as as well . marketing:  sorta project manager: That's right so we're dis So you've got which ones are gonna be on the front and which ones are gonna be on the back . industrial designer: So sh Should we decide in the next couple of minutes , and then marketing: user interface: I know it's probably like  not an issue to raise here , but  the whole thing about not using your standby  because of the like waste of electricity . Have you seen the adverts ? Like if you boil the kettle that's full that's a waste . user interface: If you leave your telly on standby it powers Blackpool for a certain amount of time . project manager: So so are you having the stand-by on the front , then ? marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: We can send out a flier with the device saying that you shouldn't leave it on stand-by . industrial designer:  are we gonna have the channel up and down as well as the number buttons ? marketing:  'cause yeah the market research said there is quite a lot of people do just zap around and flick , so . industrial designer: So we've got ten eleven twelve thirteen fourteen fifteen sixteen there ? project manager: Channel up and down . project manager: What else have we got ? What was that , sixteen ? marketing: Numbers is ten , volume is twelve , project manager: Volume button . industrial designer: Maybe if we're gonna run out of time , one of us should come up with a list of these and then get back at the next meeting just at the start and say what they're gonna be . project manager: anything else ? You're also gonna have the channel tuner , as it were . marketing: And then maybe sort of an enter button for sort of s you know , saying that you want that particular thing tuned in . So you go up and down and then it pick it finds something and then you wanna press enter to select it , yeah . We don't really need any other audio funct  functions because it's just volume up , volume down . user interface: So I think  there's quite a lot of like Dolby surround studio , surround sort of things . industrial designer: Do they have their own do they have their own controls on their actual products , then , marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: or do you have to do it via the remote ? user interface:  I think they've got their own controls in this kind of like hidden panel . industrial designer: Yeah I suppose if we've got their if they've got their own controls then we can avoid it for ours just to keep it simple . user interface: Oh no ,   like there's kind of individual buttons for them , like on the T_V_ remote . industrial designer: Maybe unless something comes up then we should I think project manager: Well you might get some research 