And then we are going to come to decision on the remote control concepts and then we're gonna close it up . 'Kay , and just to reiterate  after this meeting the team will reach a decision on the concepts of the remote control .  basically about fifty eight percent of what they like of the product that they want , describing like the in order of how much they want , fifty eight per cent of the decision of what it should look like , fancy versus functional , and then it has to also be technologically innovative , and yet easy to use . So in Milan and Paris recently the trends have been showing that clothing , shoes and furniture are basically just covered with fruits and vegetable patterns . project manager: industrial designer: marketing: So I don't know if we want to go with that  and also the spongy feel is in in contrast to last year . I don't know really ,  I guess the spongy could relate to the buttons if we want to project manager:  . marketing: rather than like a hard clicky button that you find on like some mobiles and stuff , you'd want like a softer touch . But as for the fruits and vegetable patterns , I don't know if we really want to go with that , because it is just a trend , project manager: Right . marketing: and our product we want to stay around for much longer than just a few months , project manager: Right . marketing:  so design preferences ,  we need easy to read like large buttons , clearly labelled so that ,  'cause we talked about that being a problem . user interface: marketing: And I was thinking about different types of designs and I came up with something . So what we could do is something like an old-fashioned telephone like this , where we put the buttons around , like we'd put a big on-off button or something else in the middle ,  it could be the arrows or whatever for channel up and down , and then put the numbers around in like an old-fashioned dial shape . user interface: Either refresh it , or it sh project manager: Y user interface: Oh wait , maybe I didn't put it there . project manager: user interface: Okay ,  looking at the interface concept , it's gonna be mostly examples of possibilities of where we can go with this . user interface:   can't really see , but there's two possible ways , on the r left , if you see on th on the sides of of the remote , you have the sort of scroll down , so you have that option right there . And then on the right , we have what's really big trend right now , it's the iPod . It's becoming really and so you have this sort of very very simplistic menu section  with the round buttons , and it's sort of like you have the both kind of trendy and hip , but also very sleek and  and very simple , but technologically advanced . So if you wanted to do that th if we could find a way of sort of like using that idea in a remote control then sort of look into it , but Anyway , next . user interface:  there's the idea of like being able to do it by feel as well as by  by sight . You'd you know you're in the dark , you don't wanna be looking at the remote control . And the picture particularly is pointing out if you look at the top volume button it's a V_ , and so yo you're kind of feeling a V_ like volume up . What it really is is a V_ and what it you think it is is down , because the down arrow . user interface: And so it's like a sort of a criticism you'd probably turn that o the other way up .  but then you have you could either do it by raised type , which could be you know , iffy ,  sort of old-fashioned in a way . user interface: Either that or just have it by shape , for example you have a specific triangular shape that you know you're looking at the up and down arrow . And then the round ones you sort of feel by , you know , that's the second one down , that sort of thing . project manager: user interface:  it's very cute , and we could probably change it to yellow , bright yellow for like a the for the company logo .  and then the other thing that it would be able to do is just to pro be ab you program certain channels that only these children would watch , so it's like they ch watch , you know , the C_ Beebies or something like that , project manager: user interface:  keep them away from other channels . On the bottom we probably wouldn't need that , because it's more for like a D_V_D_ function which we are not gonna be using . So again it's sort of like just give you ideas and then down at the bottom you have the logos and that's where you could put the R_R_ , Real Reaction . user interface: And then finally these are like the sort of same examples , but also some more , just possibilities that we could go with . user interface: But it's sort of like just taking aspects out of that and saying , well out of this one we like , you know the round section of  , b or we'd like the the button size on this . project manager: What's the title ? industrial designer: It'll be copy of component design . So basic remote operation runs as follows , press button makes connection with the power source and the rest of the circuit , chip senses the connection , chip produces a morse code infra-red signal , specific to that button . Transistors amplify that signal and it goes to the T_V_'s centre , which interprets the signal response accordingly , changes channel etcetera . Findings oh which were the required materials for the basic internal construction , so all the really simplistic functions that we just discussed , we need rubber for buttons , aluminium for battery y contacts , integrated circuit which consists of a diode , transistor , resonator , resistors , and a capacitator , all those basic things that make a circuit function . An L_E_D_ , which is a light emitting diode ,  contact discs for the buttons , plastic for the casing , and a power-source , whatever power-source we've actually determined we want .  personal preferences ,  to save money for the components , the remote should be mass-produced and basic materials should be bought en masse .  if we find another company who can produce the required chips , casing , L_E_D_ , any additional materials we decide we require at a less expensive rate than we ourselves are producing , we should go for it . They suggested power options , solar cells , hand dynamo , and kinetic power , so you shake it and it increases the power .  I'm not sure how the hand dynamo works , they have yet to get back to me on that . We can offer options for casing such as straight , curved , double-curved , you know , very specific to the customer . project manager: industrial designer: I don't think anyone's gonna go for a wood one , because splinters marketing: That would be amazing , though , yeah . So , if they want some a soft squishy rubber , they can't have the solar powered option . marketing: What is that ? industrial designer:  that would be two curvatures , so it would actually , if you the shape of your hand , you curve here and you curve here , so you could have two curves that match the shape of your hand to make it more comfortable to hold . And  so you functions what for the buttons , scrolling function could be very beneficial to us instead of actual buttons themselves .  the manufacturing division also has said that  they have several types of chips and they've just developed a sample sensor or sample speaker chip , which we could utilise . In addition to that if we're offering all those different options to the customer for producing their remote , we're going to have to have multiples of each type , like a double-curved in rubber ,  you know , each option should have a certain select number produced with all those options . But that could also drive up the price of the actual remote itself if they know that we only produced five thousand , you know , double-curved wooden remotes . Where were we ? user interface: Let me just add one more thing that I couldn't say before , project manager: Sure . user interface: and that's just that there's the new technology that they've developed on the voice recognition . user interface: Right except that it's sort of odd , and I'm no not exactly sure why they are explaining it in the way they are ,  there's a sample sensor and there's a sample speaker unit for So , you would say like , good morning , coffeemaker , and it would respond , good morning , Jill , project manager: user interface: but I'm not sure exactly how it's gonna work , 'cause do you programme do we program the responses and the questions . So does that mean that the user then has to ask the specific question , and can't change it in order for it to be recognised , project manager:  . user interface: or can it be altered in a certain way , or does the actually user program it , to say a channel means this . marketing: Yeah , like using the menu to be like , enter your name into the screen like on the menu options . marketing: I feel like voice recognition would be , I don't know , w it would be too hard to really project manager:  . marketing:  we could do it , but project manager: If it's within our price to get that kind of chip that would , you know , technology industrial designer: Well , we are making the chip . industrial designer: So ,  But , I guess , we have to look at w what our production cost is for the chip itself anyway . industrial designer: I I thought offering some of those options for different materials that it could be made of different , you know I think we'd have to decide on the power options , maybe . marketing: Yeah , 'cause we need to know how big it's gonna be and how heavy . project manager: Okay , that kind of brings us to this , let's let's see if we can decide what kind of energy source we want to have first and foremost . project manager: Do we wanna go for batteries or a stand like the one that we saw illustrated earlier ? marketing: Oh the base , yeah . project manager: The base , the charging base with rechargeable batteries ? industrial designer: I think the p user interface: I always feel like first I wanna know what it looks like , before project manager:  . user interface: 'Cause if it's something really really small , then it's sort of harder to imagine a base for it , that was p quite a s substantial size sort of standing up project manager: Yeah , and we don't have multiple things that it has to control , it just has to control the T_V_ . marketing: We need to decide , well so we can figure how big it's gonna be , like exactly what buttons we want project manager: What size battery and user interface: Well , the other thing is like even if it's got a few buttons , so we want it to be bigger than this , marketing: and exactly It could be like this . user interface: 'cause it still fits in your hand , so you still wanted something that's comfortable and substantial , but not necessarily full of buttons . marketing: I'd , well  This one is really comfortable , like I like the sides whatever , user interface: Are you gonna lose it easier ? marketing: because But if we have the  , the locator , then we don't have to worry about that . industrial designer: If we do a voice-activated locator , though , we're gonna be looking at a more substantial chip . user interface: it's like You know Are we gonna have certain chips that are gonna require bigger size period ? marketing: Two double A_s , for this size . user interface: But like , you know , if we get more complicated then it's gonna v be have to be bigger to just accommodate the chip size . industrial designer: Honestly , I think the customer would be kind of irritated by the fact that it has a base if we did do a nice small , compact project manager: Right . I agree , it's either gonna be bigger with a base or smaller with just marketing: Yeah . project manager: Alright , so what direction do you want to go in ? You wanna vote ? marketing: I think if we had a a locating device with the small one , I think that seems way more advanced . project manager: I'm kind of I'm kind of leaning in the direction of this kind of industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: That just seems so clunky and industrial designer: 'Kay so marketing: Yeah , because  if even looking at cellphones right now , those trends the smaller the hotter it is , user interface: Smaller and smaller , yeah , yeah , yeah . marketing: yeah industrial designer: The only problem with that is if you forget to take it out of your pocket and it goes in wash . project manager: user interface: Oh watches I've but I've never washed a cell phone . project manager: Okay , so what kind of material do we want to be made out of ? industrial designer: Pieces everywhere . user interface: I was saying that titanium , if we're being restricted then I would probably lean away from that . marketing: Yeah , 'cause if it's gonna cost us more to produce a chip , titanium will be more expensive . industrial designer: However , project manager: What would you recommend ? industrial designer: well , we only wanna sell it for twenty five Euro marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: right ? 'Cause I was thinking if we wanted to get the high in market then you could produce a few in titanium , user interface: Yeah . marketing: We could do that , because all our research shows that people are definitely willing to spend more if industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: Are we restricted by this ? project manager: I I think we should just focus on one design and one concept right now.I'm industrial designer: Well the original user interface: Twenty five Euros project manager: not sure that we'll have the time and money to produce a whole array of industrial designer: Okay . If this was a successful remote , we might then produce a higher end version of it , I think . project manager: Okay , so we wanna go for plastic , or what would you recommend for materials ? industrial designer: Honestly I'd recommend like  project manager:  . industrial designer:  since we're going with batteries instead of solar power , I'd recommend maybe a  soft like latex , project manager: industrial designer: because we could produce , you know how cellphones have those overlays that you can change the colour . industrial designer: We could do  one that fits in with the trends of the year so , marketing: Oh . industrial designer: because this year is all fruit , God only knows why , user interface: marketing: Yeah , who knows . industrial designer:  we could do f a cherry cover for this year and then i if next year is stripes or solids , you know project manager: Okay . user interface: So you're talking about like when it leaves our salesroom then it's all gonna be cherry-coloured or is it gonna be the kinda thing where people come back and swap it ? marketing: O or we could like take off this . industrial designer: So we could do like a b a hard base plastic , and then we could give two latex covers to start . Okay , and what kind of chip would we need for this guy ? industrial designer: How complicated Are we gonna go with the voice activated user interface: Yeah . project manager: I don't think we should do voice , I think we should just do  the recognition for when it's lost , you know . marketing: 'Cause that  what it type of , yeah , for voice activation would it be like a certain term what we would say like , project manager:  . marketing: because people could just be talking and we don't want it going off all the time . project manager: marketing:  see I'm  I'm strangely attracted to it , because I know that's it's definitely gonna be big , because it's , I don't know , it's just so high-tech . user interface: Well , my little sister got for Christmas she got one of those key finders that's like a key-ring , and you have to whistle in a certain frequency for it to work . user interface: And then she would laugh and it would start going off in her purse , and you couldn't turn it off . But it's not gonna be voice activated in the fact that you would say , channel up , and it would work , right ? marketing: Yeah , n n no , we just want it to be a finder . marketing: But do can your can the department make industrial designer: That would be like a mid-class  Yeah . industrial designer: So we don't actually have to go for Well , if they've just developed the sample sensor , sample speaker , it's a brand new chip . project manager:  and what size batteries , double A_ , triple A_ ? marketing: I think triple A_ , it'll be lighter . industrial designer: I think , well , we could d r do two or we could do one small lithium , 'cause you know the lithium batteries are doing quite well in most other electronic products , right ? So they're more widely available now . industrial designer: Well , how about a initial , you get one battery when you buy it , user interface: Right , that's what I meant . project manager: and that the central button could have , maybe our logo on it ? It might be the four way scroll , too . marketing: as long as there's something big in the middle , because like the old phones , there's like that just like piece of metal or like a picture or something in the middle . user interface: Well , my issue with that is if it got too big though , 'cause if you have the circle and the button in the middle , then is it gonna get wider than your your hands are , project manager:  . user interface: because w And then would the buttons be too small if it was enough to fit on it ? marketing: Good point . industrial designer: In the sample ones that you showed us there was one that had the scroll buttons on the side , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: which I think if we make it curved like a hand like a hand-shape like if we put the the scroll-button on the side , user interface: Yeah . marketing: So scroll buttons on the side and then buttons on top ? project manager: Yeah , I like that . marketing: But we definitely If we have scroll things on the side , we definitely have to have 'em labelled . marketing: Yeah , industrial designer: Well , if it's just up and down marketing: like on the side of it . We should probably make it that you have to depress it to activate it then , project manager: So that you're just not holding it and it changes the chan marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: 'cause oth otherwise you're not just holding it and going like this , you know . user interface: Well , the other option is in instead of a scroll you just have the buttons up on the side which are on the side . W industrial designer: We have to make sure that logo always sticks out when we put the latex covers on , so we'll have to like have a little square or something , so that the our logo's available . user interface: Well I sort of like having the a yellow strip at the bottom with the R_R_ like that . project manager: I think maybe we should do it on a b button itself though , because if people are able to change the covers , user interface: Which button ? project manager: I don't know , maybe the on-off button , something , some the menu button , I don't know , but you know if we're gonna put our company logo on there and somebody could just get another one . Are they all gonna have our company logo on them ? Every cover ? industrial designer: Yeah , I don't think we should do that , because that would just be icky . project manager: If we want it to be visible and  are all those those one that you showed where they were  s met silver-metallic looking ? But those are plastic , right ? user interface: Yeah .  but , or if it was really industrial designer: For our base one ? project manager: Yeah , for the base or if we're going for the retro look , I think , like a really shiny black would be cool . marketing: Yeah , project manager: What are your thoughts ? marketing: or like a gun-metal grey , project manager: Gun-metal gray . user interface: Well , w w then what's the button do , and how do you know that that is what the button does ? I guess . Just looking at examples , y you just don't ever see the logo on a button , it's always on the actual casing . industrial designer: There's nothing saying that we have to put the logo on the front of the actual user interface: project manager: On the back ? user interface: But you don't marketing: But we want it to be seen . project manager: 'Cause if it was only on the back really the only time you're gonna see it is when you drop it or when you're changing the battery . The other option is , I don't know if you can see it but it's like if project manager: I can find it again . project manager: Well , for some reason I can't get it to just go to that slide directly . You see at the bottom , it's kind of difficult to see , but you have like a d sort of s division between the bottom like , where the logo is , and if we have the replaceable section , it's like the top . project manager:  user interface: And so you have that one piece that stays and the rest just sort of clips in . project manager: Okay , yes user interface: If c you envisioning it ? project manager: yes . user interface: And so that stays the same when you have the logo , and then you have this s slip that kinda clips in and that's the bit that changes . industrial designer: The only problem is we're using a latex overlay so it actually would go over top of everything and have holes for the buttons , user interface:  . industrial designer: so I was thinking maybe instead of doing that what we could do is leave a space for where the logo should be . user interface: That's like , you know , a a cellphone it's like the the screen is always just left opened . user interface: And so , what we are gonna do it like bright yellow with the R_R_ ? marketing: Yeah . project manager: Anybody see anything that they liked in these ones ? marketing: Some of tho Well , some of those buttons though are blue-based .  and then if v we do have them illuminate upon contact , they could illuminate yellow . marketing: Like if we like the one all the way on the left ,  you ca you can see it on your computer better . marketing:  where the button is actually blue , but the number itself is clear or white or whatever so if you pressed it would illuminate yellow . Any other ideas or thoughts ? We all seem to be fairly in agreement about what we wanna do with this project so user interface:  . user interface: Did we finalise what buttons we're including or we just everything that we said before ? project manager: I think there will be time for that later .  next meeting is gonna start in thirty minutes , and here's what we're each of us going to do . The I_D_ is going to do the look and feel design , the U_I_D_ the user interface design . I think you're going to get a lot of , the final say on what buttons get put We'll all talk about it , but I think , that's pretty much what you're gonna do , right ? user interface: Yeah . Okay , and right now , the I_D_ and U_I_D_ , you two are going to work together on a prototype using modelling clay 