project manager: Are we we're not allowed to dim the lights so people can see that a bit better ? user interface: Yeah . marketing: So we've got both of these clipped on ? She gonna answer me or not ? project manager: Yeah , I've got marketing: Right , both of them , okay . project manager:  I'm Sarah , the Project Manager and this is our first meeting , surprisingly enough . Okay , this is our agenda ,  we will do some stuff , get to know each other a bit better to feel more comfortable with each other .  then we'll go do tool training , talk about the project plan , discuss our own ideas and everything  and we've got twenty five minutes to do that , as far as I can understand .  , we want it to be original , something that's  people haven't thought of , that's not out in the shops , trendy , appealing to a wide market , but you know , not a hunk of metal , and user-friendly , grannies to kids , maybe even pooches should be able to use it . Okay , first is the functional design ,  this is where we all go off and do our individual work ,  what needs need to be fulfilled by the product ,  what effects the product has to have and how it's actually going to do that .  , conceptual design , what we're thinking , how it's gonna go and then the detailed design , how we're actually gonna put it into practice and make it work . We're gonna practice with the pens and draw our favourite animal on the white board , I'll go first , and  sum up the characteristics of that animal . I'm not gonna ask you to guess , I'm going to tell you that's supposed to be a tiger . Where did this come from ? project manager: Is that your lapel then ? user interface: yep .  , maybe you can guess what I'm trying to make ? marketing: A kind of dog ? project manager: user interface: Yep . It's your best friend and your you can talk to a dog , it can be your best friend , it doesn't discriminate between you , based on what you are . marketing: Please , please leave me a space at the bottom , I'm little , project manager: industrial designer: Alright , okay . industrial designer: Well since you guys have chosen the ones I wanted to do , I'll have to have to go for something a bit random . project manager: Well , as you can see , the quality of the work today is  marketing: user interface:  . project manager: industrial designer: Okay , now I'm gonna have to change what is was originally gonna be project manager: industrial designer: because that looks like a beak now , so . Is it gonna be marketing: user interface: industrial designer: Well it was it was an at first project manager: it's gonna be a bird . industrial designer: firstly it was an attempt at a T_ Rex and then it sort of changed into a pelican marketing: O industrial designer: but it can be a crocodile now actually .  marketing: Beauti that's industrial designer:  scary ,  strong , yeah that's about it I think .  , I'm very impressed with your artistic skills , industrial designer:   marketing: mine's are dreadful . industrial designer: Wo marketing: I hope that clicks in , I'll just I'll hold it on , okay . project manager: industrial designer: marketing: Oops , oh dear , what happened there ? project manager: Technical help . marketing: Okay ,  Again this is off the top of my head , I was gonna do a big cat too ,  . industrial designer: Okay , some sort of bird marketing: That's my dreadful that's the worst yet , that's it's meant to be an eagle project manager: A seagu user interface: Eagle , okay . marketing: you can tell it's a flying animal could have been a seagull , I never thought of a seagull . marketing: Indepen independent , right , did you say they're good at golf ? project manager: Eagle . industrial designer: marketing: I'd say they're quite free-spirited , flying around everywhere , doing their own thing .  finance-wise , we've got a selling price at twenty five Euros , which I don't actually know what that is in Pounds , at all . Any ideas ? industrial designer: It's about user interface: One point four or something like that . industrial designer: so that project manager: D fifteen ? industrial designer: yeah about seventeen , seventeen Pounds , something like that . marketing: Should we be making notes of this ? We can just refer to this later can't we ? project manager: I think so , I think so , industrial designer: But project manager: I'll be able to  pull it up , marketing: Yeah , okay . industrial designer: Havi having said that though , if you wanna get one of those the the ones on the market at the moment they're s they're about twenty pounds anyway . I think marketing: so I suppose later it depends if we want to undercut the price , we d or or is it going to make our product look a cheapie-cheapie option ? project manager: Yeah ,  production cost's at twelve fifty , so industrial designer:  . project manager: which is  marketing: In our first year ? project manager: Yi yes ,  yeah , I presume so . user interface: So then marketing: You've got market range international and you did say earlier it's got to be a  accessible and usable by sort of all age groups project manager: marketing: just t we're not focusing on business market , any particular thing , it's everyone project manager: No , yeah . project manager: yes , yes , I don't think we have to I don't think it's a case of worrying about different languages and things like that ,  making that a key point , marketing: No . project manager: just that it's going to be in the international market like Australia , America , things like that . What are your experiences with remote controls ?  I've got we got  we had three videos , a T_V_ and a sort of amp thing all set up user interface: project manager: so we got one of the universal remote controls ,  that you programme each of your things into , industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: that c project manager: but that kept losing the signals so we'd have to re-programme it every now and again . I think it was quite a cheapie as well , so that might have had something to do with it , industrial designer: Yeah  . project manager: but that was quite good , the fact that you could You didn't have six remote controls sitting in front of you . user interface: Okay , you wanna integrate everything into one like industrial designer: Yeah , user interface: Okay . industrial designer: 'cause you marketing: My experience has only been being given the remote control with the object I buy , not doing any tampering with it and programming , using it to programme T_V_ and   videos and things . But basically on , off , volume up and down , channel one , two , th that basic functions , project manager:  . marketing: I don't think I could go any further with it than that , so , I suppose it's got to be something usable by someone like me as well . project manager: Yeah , the main that's the main stuff anyway ,  marketing: project manager: and you don't want to I hate I hate looking at a control and seeing a million tiny little buttons with tiny little words saying what they all do marketing:  . When they're when you've got the main things on the front of it and a section opens up or something to the other functions where you can do sound or options kind of recording , things like that inside it . project manager: 'Cause it doesn't make when you pick it up it doesn't make it really complicated to look at , marketing:  . marketing: Actually that just raises a point , I wonder what our design people think , but you know on a mobile phone , you can press a key and it gives you a menu , it's got a menu display , user interface: marketing: I wonder if incorporating that into the design of a remote control might be useful , industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: Right , I was thinking on the same lines you , instead of having too many b buttons and make it complicated for the user , may h maybe have an L_C_D_ di display or something like that , like a mobile , yeah and with menus . user interface: And if it's s somewhat similar to what you have on mobile phone , people might find it easier to browse and navigate also maybe . project manager: What about the older generation ? What about granny and grandads ? user interface: You mean to save it lesser number . project manager: my grandad can answer his mobile phone , but he couldn't even dream of texting or something like that . project manager: I don't think they tape things , industrial designer: Yeah , my grandad's actually better than me at using teletext , so project manager: I don't think they use marketing: Right . So that's a problem regardless of of any design modifications you you come up with , industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: that's gonna be a problem anyway with the older generation perhaps , project manager: yeah , the age gap . industrial designer: Yeah , what it just needs to be as long as it's sort of self-intuitive and you can can work out what everything's doing , 'cause  , menus on sort of new phones now they've sort of got all these pictures and stuff which makes it fairly obvious what you're trying to do . project manager: I don't know , I d industrial designer: But I don't know how project manager: I don't like the , you know the new phones that have kind of got a Windows-based running system . project manager: I find it really confusing , I kept getting lost in the phone , I di I've not got a new one but  my friend got a new one marketing: Right . project manager: and I was trying to do things with it and I just kept getting lost , but that's just me . industrial designer: Yeah , I don't I don't know how for twenty fi , or twelve Euros fifty how much of a excellent screen you could get , marketing: project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: you'd you'd have to sort of keep it down to a black and white L_C_D_ thing anyway , I'd assume . Is it possible that that for the older generation you could have like an extra button that you press for large print like you do in large print books ? user interface: Okay . marketing: Obviously it displays less on the screen , it displays less on the screen but as long as they can read it that's the main thing . Or what about kind of a dual function ? In that you've got the basic buttons just for your play , volume , programme things marketing: project manager: and also and then a menu to go into with obvious pictures , obvious symbols and that's where you control recording and things like that . The other thing is , just ch chucking into mobile phone f design features again , it could have a flip top remote control so that when you flip over the top , your screen is you can have a bigger screen in the the flip over . S project manager: I think that's a cost thing , I don't I don't know how much we're gonna know about industrial designer: Y user interface: It might marketing: Yeah ? user interface: it might save a b bit of space , it's i instead of looking bulky , it might look small . marketing: And there's no reason we need to make it look as fashionable and stylish as a mobile phone , it can still be lightweight plastic , you know ? project manager:  . project manager: right , okay industrial designer: No   project manager: we've got half an hour before the next meeting , so we're all gonna go off and do our individual things .  I think that's probably about it and then we'll come back and liaise again and I get to do another fantastic PowerPoint presentation . industrial designer: about what you're saying about the  does does it need to be fashionable ? The sort of I I had a quick look at the company website and it's like the the  we put the fashion into electronics , so I think think the whole design thing might be qui marketing: Ah right . industrial designer: and it'd look quite good but marketing: But yeah ,  it doesn't have to be that , you know th that was my main point , industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: we don't have to use metal , I don't know if using plastic does make it cheaper , project manager:  . They're kind of moulded and look a bit different , and the Telewest remote controls are silver plastic , which looks a bit smarter , marketing: Right 