Right , my name's Adam Duguid , we're here because of real reaction , we have in the group marketing: Oh , Ebenezer Ademesoye . Would you like me to spell that ? project manager: yeah , marketing: S project manager: go for it mate . project manager: And you're going to be the User Interface , user interface: User Interface Defin Designer , yes . So , the reason we're here , we're gonna design a new remote control , as you probably all know . Course , we'll have to go into a bit more  detail than that , but  personally I think that the original is gonna be a very key aspect to this design .  , there's a lot of remote controls out there anyway , so we're gonna need something that's really gonna set it apart . We're gonna have the three kay phases , as you've probably already been told , the functional , architectural , and the detailed design . Second seems to be conceptual components , properties , materials , and the last one is a detailed analysis of our design so far . What can I say ? Ebenezer , you wanna have a you wanna draw your favourite animal ? industrial designer: marketing: Sure . Also , elephants have a very good memory , much like myself , industrial designer: marketing: and I can't remember back when I used to live back in Nigeria , but I think I used to have a pet elephant . So elephants are big , strong and gentle , and they have great memories , and they begin with the letter E_ , just like Ebenezer . project manager: Tarik , would you like to have a shot at a bit of artistry ? industrial designer: . industrial designer: Do we take them off ? marketing: I think you ga industrial designer: Oh right , project manager: You should also l  have your the lapel mic on as well . Yeah , industrial designer: Now where do I put the marketing: Just  somewhere project manager: Yep , the , it's just across there , that's it . project manager: You can probably just stick it in your pocket for now , I wouldn't worry too much . They're just they're big , they're biggest cats ,  I did a project on cats in the wild when I was a kid and  it was my favourite cat , just 'cause it was looks the best , the stripes , orange . My dad used to talk about he's from Bangladesh so he used to tell me all about them when he was when I was a kid . The one f  in fact this is a somewhat oblique reference in fact to  well my I have a three  three y year old daughter who h who who who is affectionately known as Miss Monkey . And  fr and from  from the point of view of sort of the study of human evolution they and other primates are terribly interesting . And and th th th th thi thi this one seems to have perhaps more attitude than most . Also not quite as feared as your average tiger , but  cats are one of my favourite animals , they're very independent , they're snotty as hell at the best of times , and  , what can you say , you got to love those qualities in an animal . I think we've all managed to master the whiteboard there by looks of it , so , on to it . That's not a terrible lot as far as I'm aware , and we're hoping to sell them for twenty five . If we're aiming for fifty million Euros we're gonna have to be selling an awful lot of them . marketing: Oh , that was profiting , that was an amount , so that's the amount made , project manager: Yep . project manager: Well , fifty million , and if you're making twelve point five Euros on each one , then , awful lot need to be sold . Any ideas of where you think a new remote control could go into this market ? user interface: Well , one thing I'm aware of is , th there   at the sort of v very high price end of the market there's there's a em emerging market for sort of touch screen L_C_D_ remotes that can be  programmed in m much more sophisticated ways than sort of conventional models , so you get the sort of you get  you you can redesign the interface to your own needs , you can programme in macros , and you get a much greater degree    you get in these sort of three in one , five in one , whatevers , but you can get integration between the different  the the the diff the different things that it's designed to control , to a much greater extent , and you can have one  you know one macro to turn the  you know turn the T_V_ to the right channel , get the  re  rewind the tape in the V_C_R_ and get it to play once it's rewound , for instance . user interface:  b it occurs to me there might be a niche for  for a remote that aimed towards some of that sort of functionality but using a just conventional push button design . project manager: Okay , yeah , tha that's true , with the price range we're looking at , going for a touch screen would probably be possibly out of our user interface: Absolutely prohibitive , project manager: yeah . user interface: Yeah ,  I wouldn't like to say you g  you get ones that you can switch between multiple units , but something that could  operate between multiple units in a more integrated fashion . project manager: Would the the idea something along the lines of , one on button would turn on say the video recorder , the T_V_ , maybe the sound system as well , all in one go , is that kind of user interface: For instance ,  let's say oh oh  , or  you know you pr  you press  say the play button for the D_V_D_ player and it turns the T_V_ on and onto the right channel as well ,  project manager: Okay , that sounds like a a good strong idea .  marketing: 'Kay project manager: Any takes on this ? marketing: Well  I've noticed that  gaming c is becoming quite popular with television ,  when I was younger we used to e play games using our cable , using the cable subscribed the cable providers , user interface: marketing: but our remote controls would get worn out really easily , and the remote control was not a great kind of keyboar ,  keypad , for playing games . They they've recently brought out this new remote control , for people to set their favourite channels , or  to record things . Instead of people entering in what time things start , you simply stri slide a bar to say what time it begins , project manager: Okay . marketing: and slide another bar to say what time it ends , you know that's project manager: Yeah I've heard I've seen the bar-code design before , industrial designer:  . marketing: Yeah , it's it's taken out the Y you don't have to be  really clever to use a remote control . I think for gaming , you know you want you want some big buttons for up , down , left and right , shoot . project manager: marketing: you wanna be able to change angles in interactive television , so you need buttons to change the television angle , the camera angles and stuff like that . project manager: we're beginning to run out of time now , so , we've got a couple of ideas , marketing: Yeah . project manager: we can we'll have to work fast , alright as you can see we've got thirty minutes until the next meeting , so we'll have to try and decide on some of the basic functionality , how the user interface might work , that'll be a key aspect especially if the idea of  some kind of macros facility because you have to program it , you have to have a lot of response back , or at least some kind . project manager: And we're gonna maybe n try and have to figure out marketing: What the user wants  . Has anybody got anything they'd like to add at this stage , anything they think that might have been missed so far ? industrial designer: Well when you're talking about gaming and stuff , do you think they should have some sort of stick on it , rather than buttons ? marketing: Oh . industrial designer: or is that a bit ridiculous ? project manager: I I don't see why not , almost everybody is probably used to a console by now , and all of them incorporate small keypads on them , in fact even the mobile phones these days are beginning to use them as well , so it's probably an interface that most people are used to . The other key feature that  that would be a good idea built into it is t is is to make something you know fairly sort of ergonomic , something that just fits fits as comfortably as possible into the hand . But of course ,  al al also allows for the possibility of a more sort of slightly unconventional or attractive  sha shape for it overall , . So , user interface: A curve , project manager: small , stylish , and something that's just a little different . Something sort of sort of sl slightly sort of biomorphic in form ,  which it would need to be to sort of conform to the shape of the hand more efficiently anyway . I'd say we finish this one up , we get started , I'll get in , I'll write up what we've  kind of quickly done , and I'll get that out to everybody . project manager: as far as I'm aware we leave the microphones here ,  unless we get told otherwise , and just take the laptops with us .