 I'm just gonna have a little PowerPoint presentation for us , for our kick-off meeting .  our agenda today is we are gonna do a little opening and then I'm gonna talk a little bit about the project , then we'll move into acquaintance such as getting to know each other a little bit , including a tool training exercise . And then we'll move into the project plan , do a little discussion and close , since we only have twenty five minutes .  we are creating a new remote control which we have three goals about , it needs to be original , trendy and user-friendly . First the functional design which will be  first we'll do individual work , come into a meeting , the conceptional design , individual work and a meeting , and then the detailed design , individual work and a meeting . So  , what we're gonna do is start off with  let's start off with Amina . industrial designer: project manager:  we're gonna do a little tool training , so we are gonna work with that whiteboard behind you . project manager: How do you spell your name ? industrial designer: A_ L_ I_ M_ A_ . Not necessarily 'cause it's my absolute favourite animal , but just that I think they're drawable . industrial designer: It's quite cool carry your home around where you go ,  quite decorative little animals , they can swim , they can , they're very adaptable , they carry everything they need with them ,  and they're easy to draw . industrial designer: No , user interface: I'll I should leave that one on there industrial designer: you can erase the turtle , user interface: shouldn't I before I callously rub it off . marketing: Oh my god , it's better than what I'm gonna be able to do . user interface:  and , yeah , the reason I like whales is 'cause  they're well , first of all they're quite intelligent  and also they're they're kind of mysterious , like we don't really know much about them or or understand how they work , how they form groups . Maybe if I do the water , industrial designer: marketing: but how ? Sort of give an idea . project manager: let's give it a little bit of a snout , I don't know , some teeth . industrial designer: project manager: I live  I live right across the street from an open space in California .  we have a couple we'd like to sell it for about twenty five Euro with the profit aim of  fifteen million Euro  from our sales and because this is such this is for television it's a we have a market range of Internet , like it's an international market range , we don't have to worry about specifics .  in order to make a profit of this magnitude , we need to  be able to produce each one at a maximum of twelve fifty Euro . Okay  , just to generate a little bit of discussion about the project  , I could I'd like to hear about your experiences using ro remote controls ,  your first ideas about  creating a new r remote control , what would be the best  like you what are the features that you really like what are the features that you don't like , etcetera , so marketing:  I hate when there's like four different buttons and you have to press to actually turn on the T_V_ like you have to do one for the power of the T_V_ and then like another one to get the actual screen on and something else to get it all going , I don't know . Now they keep combining all different remotes together , and I don't know if I necessarily like that 'cause I feel like you end up with multimedia overload . user interface: I've used , I've used remote controls , for things like T_V_ and the C_D_ player and video recorder and I I guess they're they're pretty neat neat little tools  . user interface: So especially if you're someone really lazy like me they they're pretty nice . I find them they can be a bit annoying , especially , like you know if I'm watching T_V_ I have have to have three separate remote controls of in front of me , you know , one for the T_V_ , one for the digital box , one for m the video recorder as well . And also they tend to they tend to be a bit confusing , they've got too many buttons on them  too too sort of too sort of complicated when all I really wanna do is switch on and off , change the channel , change the volume . My dad has a whole drawer at home of remotes for various things , and I don't know how to work half of them  . What's important for me , I guess , is that it's easy to use and that there's not too many buttons , they are not too small , you know you know you need to n to know what you're doing . And one thing I particularly like is if you are not  sort of moving it around to get it to work with the infra-red . industrial designer: but I know in my residence right now the the television you sort of have to walk all around the room to get it to turn on , project manager: industrial designer: so i it's just simpler just to just turn around the T_V_ itself , and I think that's if we're gonna make a remote control , it should actually work for what it's doing . So marketing: What about like batteries and things like that , like are there some remotes that don don't require like batteries or do all remotes require batteries ? project manager:  I would imagine all of them , industrial designer: I know . project manager: but we could but it's possible we could use like a lithium battery  that would last a lot longer than like double A_s . project manager:  like tho those are the batteries that are used in a lot of  M_P_ three players now and that kind of thing . Okay , it seems we have a little bit of a conflict over  to  combining all the remotes cont together versus having f five different remotes . So  like you said you don't like having all the buttons on one on one remote , and yet you don't wanna have five remotes . industrial designer: Could we get something that just has No doesn't have all the buttons that you need to program the video recorder or program s other things that I'm not very coherent about , but that just has your major buttons for that work for everything , you know volume control , on , off , project manager: marketing: And maybe that spatially divides it , so it's like if you're looki if you're trying to get the T_V_ on that's , you know , like the top thing on the remote , I dunno if d be vertical or horizontal in terms of how we're gonna make it , but if it's like all the T_V_ stuff was here , industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: then all the V_C_R_ stuff was here , all the whatever else we have programmed into it it's all just in its separate place and not like all the on buttons together , project manager:  . marketing: 'cause then you like , I don't even know what I'm turning on . industrial designer: Yeah , and if  if you'd save the more complicated functions maybe for separate remotes that you wouldn't need to use every day . project manager: Okay , so maybe have like one remote that has the main functions on , off , channel changing , volume , and another rote remote with all the special things . project manager: Because that is one thing that  remotes tend to have buttons that the T_V_s no longer have as well . user interface: Can I ask , are we designing a remote control for a television only project manager: Good question . user interface: and if if this device is just to be used for the television would we even technically be possible to include video recorder functions on it ? project manager: I don't know that yet . user interface:  or should we just stick to just stick to having television television related buttons on it ? industrial designer:  . user interface: marketing: I think it's just T_V_ , if it if we're taking it just new product a new television remote control that's not like doesn't say . user interface: So we should maybe we should assume that i t it's just a television that we're wanting to control . industrial designer: user interface: Well ,  I suppose it would be nice to have playing and record and stop buttons on it for the video recorder as well I I don't know if that works technologically or not . If it's just a television then that it's a bit simpler , 'cause there's less buttons that would even need to be on it . If you have older people or people like me that aren't very co-ordinated hand-eye , it's really quite important that you are not pressing a small like teeny mobiles phone size buttons , if we can help it . I believe we've actually been only working on this this one for about twenty , so we can continue discussing more new ideas if you'd like  , industrial designer:  .  user requirements  , so you'll be hearing about different trends ,  about different things that people need ,  I guess kind of the same  discussion that we've been having , we'll get from the actual consum s consumers . I realised in this past one we we didn't have much , we just wanted to get a little brain-storming done . user interface: project manager: Any questions ? industrial designer: user interface: What we're gonna be discussing at the next meeting ? Do we know that ? project manager: I haven't gotten an agenda yet ,  I'll put that together . project manager: and then  because what we gonna do is first our individual actions and then we'll come back together . So I'm sure we'll all have more concrete things to contribute next time user interface: Yep . user interface: project manager:  'kay  I'll type up mi minutes and probably email those out to all of you . Can you e-mail your slides as well ? Is that possible ? project manager: Yes , I yes , I think I can . user interface: 'Kay project manager: Just make sure you keep checking the company web site and the emails 