So does anyone have any  thoughts as to the tool training that  is required ? industrial designer: Tool training user interface: I'm not exactly sure what you mean by tool training . user interface: marketing: project manager: Oh I see , so we shouldn't really be Oh right okay , so . So we have the project team , which is to  basically to come up with a new r remote control device . industrial designer: project manager:  we have  the starting base was the original which has been in existence now for a period of time . And  our idea is to  to make the new remote control device  more user friendly than the previous one , and to to be trendier , to be with it , and therefore to  to get a bigger market share and bigger audience . project manager: So  method of doing this is  split up as you can see into  the functional design , the conceptional design , and the detailed design . So  in each of these  phases we'll  basically be handing over to yourselves , the designers of this  this device . project manager: And  having  meetings so that we can  during the course of the day  come up with a better better inst implement than we had before . marketing: user interface: project manager: Right so everyone's to  supposedly  draw their favourite animal over on the white board over there . marketing: Your microphone's just project manager: I take it that user interface: Are we supposed to do this right now , do you think , or ? project manager: I would I would guess so .  and this would be because they're very independent ,  they're very intelligent , compared to dogs maybe . I'll I'll user interface: Shall I rub that out , actually ? project manager: I don't see as there's any need to . project manager: We've had more time to prepare over this side , industrial designer: There's one . I'm gonna go for the bear which I'm be able to draw very well , project manager: You get marks for artistic impression . user interface: project manager: user interface: marketing: industrial designer:  and I like my animal that looks nothing like a bear because  I dunno maybe because there's so many cartoon characters made up after the bear like the jungle book characters and stuff like that . And they're always happy , so whenever whenever you're feeling sort of a bit a bit down or tired , they're always coming up and they're always  quite excited . project manager: industrial designer: user interface: marketing: Okay , that's why I like dogs . Well I've not actually had too many pets  over my  time 'cause to be honest with you  I'm not too keen on them anyway . So what my daughters have got at the moment is they've got  a few fish and so hopefully  won't prove too difficult to draw . And  one of the best  things about fish is that they don't really take  too much looking after because  with most of the animals if you're going away on holiday or whatever , you've gotta spend money or get a friend or whatever to look after them for you . Whereas if you got fish , you just gotta put the food in a a a dripper feed which feeds them over the  couple of weeks that you're away and  change the water every couple of months , and buy in a few plants , so . Other than the fact that they keep dying , industrial designer: project manager:  fish are  are not are are are reasonable pets in that  they're low maintenance . And therefore making a profit margin of  well not actually a profit margin it's  because obviously you're gonna have overheads and various other costs to  take  from  from that to give you your profit margin per unit . And so depending what the  the overhead  costs are will determine  how many units we're  looking to sell or projecting to sell at this point in time . So I guess we're looking at  having a discussion at this point in time to help  you  folks design our our new model as it were . project manager: So  any any thoughts ? industrial designer:  I with some remote controls the buttons were a little small so they're quite hard to press so maybe we make something with  easy to press buttons . project manager: Okay , so so basically we're looking for some  we're looking for a device that is  robust and and therefore  won't get damaged too easily . project manager:  we're looking for a device that is  What was the other things you said there ? industrial designer:  sort of easy to use so the buttons are accessible . user interface: Can I just check ? Is this just a television remote ? Because a lot of  systems are kind of T_V_ video combined now , or T_V_ D_V_D_ combined . industrial designer: user interface: Or is it just a television that we're supposed to be doing ? marketing:  . industrial designer: project manager: But it seems to me sensible , user interface: project manager: 'cause as you rightly said , there's nothing more annoying than having three or four devices littered about the  about the room .  one of the things  we found from the market research is that people often get confused by the number of buttons on them as well . And  sometimes  they sort of remote controls defeat their own purpose because you're sat in the chair and the remote is somewhere else in the room . So whereas in the past you'd have to get up to change the channel , now you have to get up to sort of pick up the remote . So so I don't we need to sort of maybe think about how  we could maybe  develop a remote control which moves around the room . marketing: That's that's maybe something for the future when you can talk to your television , but industrial designer: Yeah . You can't have both the th the one device and then have few buttons on it to marketing: Yeah . project manager: 'cause you want you want simplicity as well , you want any idiot to be able to use it . project manager:  you could argue that experience of using devices and similar devices as people get more and more used to using remotes , therefore they're more with handling them , industrial designer: Yeah . Or are we just doing the design of the remote control itself , or sort of the instructions that would come with it ? project manager: Better instructions .  we've done some research  about sort of you know what the cutting edge sort of hand held devices are , and a lot of them sort of use you know they're like they're like mini laptops . marketing: So it's possible that we could devise a system where where you're you're basically sort of holding a a miniature computer which is controlling all your your sort of your television , your stereo , and where you know if you buy a new thing then it sort of you can link it to that as well , maybe . project manager: So  Right , so we've got I_D_ the Come on , where's my marketing: If you just click return it should be okay . So we've got function Oh what happened to the user interface: I think that might be back to the start . marketing: project manager: Okay , so we've got  the working design for I_D_ . Are we all clear what objectives we're looking to meet in the next thirty minutes ? industrial designer: project manager: And I guess I'll try and write up some minutes of  this meeting to  to give it to you for the next meeting . user interface: I'm not exactly clear on what we're designing the rem remote for . user interface: Is this a mun multi-functional one or do we decide that ourselves as we go away and work on it ? industrial designer: I think you just said at the start it was a television remote control , project manager: Television remote control . project manager: That's true , 'cause during during the course of our day we might make decisions based on information or meetings that would change where we're going . project manager: But at this point in time I think you're right that  shall we make it just a T_V_ 