 I did took the minutes from the first meeting and I'll show them to you in a moment .  I know each of you have a presentation and  in thinking about the forty minutes , I thought it would take only like three minutes for the previous minutes ,  each of you having about seven minutes or maybe a little more , maybe a little less for your pre presentations and a little discussion , because there's I happen to have been told there were some new project requirements and we have to make some  decision on what functions it will have .  and after the meeting there'll be things to be done and as you can see it says we get to get lunch ,  and then some more individual work and then putting minutes away and individual actions . I opened the meeting , the product was developed  and reviewed , and we talked about the financial end of it .  and it had some implications ,  the four million sales target and new ideas of not too many buttons , bright colours and some of the influence of the Japanese . And we closed early so you could then proceed with your research and getting your reports together for tod this meeting Anybody have any questions on those minutes ? Are they complete , did they discuss everything that we covered last time ? 'Kay . industrial designer:  I think so , project manager: Did I miss something ? industrial designer: we we we talked about the the individual roles that we each had as well . I'm afraid I incorporated that when I said who was present , but yes , we did , industrial designer: Okay . project manager: and we did a little bit of  team building of  of making the pictures , marketing: Okay , I accept the minutes . One of the the biggest issues I found about  from last meeting was the fact that we need to sell four million of these  remote controls and I think that this is an opportunity to really take Real Reaction in the direction of of similar of handheld tools that have been used and are used by many of us and to kind of bring the remote control into the si same realm as an accessible  useful electronic device , as opposed to something that is lost in the couch and what have you . So  my main goal here is to re-envision the remote control in in this context and to think about menu functionality and current technology and the fact that it could be interactive with other tools .  some of the research  in the market has shown that people really are not happy with remote controls as they are now , and  that means we do need to make some decisions about what what keys or or buttons on the on the remote control to perhaps keep and and what ones to discard . And if we devote some energy into this , I think the  recent productions of Real Reaction , the I go everywhere power and the high definition D_V_D_ players although it makes immediate sense to have our remote control interact with these , I think we can also use this as a platform to make it interact with other tools . And  in fact I think the high definition D_V_D_ players and all of this will come along in the  will only benefit from the positive feedback from our well designed tool .  fifty percent I think of all these  numbers the most important is fifty percent of user say they only use ten percent of the buttons . And eighty percent of users , and if we think about this there are a lot of  television , D_V_D_ , stereo remote control users out there , eighty percent would spend more money on a remote control that looks fancy . industrial designer: Could can I ask where these figures come from , is this market research we've marketing:  it was market research and there were a hundred people in the room , so eighty out of a hundred said they would spend more money . project manager: Now in between , as the Project Manager , they sent me an email from the powers that be industrial designer: project manager: and the internet is coming in as important , but that they want this remote control to only be for T_V_  with incorporating the corporate image , colour and slogan . Well I think we can I I think we can really focus on this remote and and again bring the Real Reaction  brand in in and and get some positive marketing for our other tools , even if we directly don't  advertise for the I go everywhere line . marketing: Now the early adopters , those of us who grew up with technology and  luck lucky for us have the  cash to to pay for it , the young age group without the mortgages and responsibilities , ninety one percent of them would pay more for speech recognition in a remote control . Very interesting , I I leave this up to the group to decide if we wanna use this  if and you know , the the designers , project manager:  . marketing: but ninety one percent , fifteen to twenty five project manager: Is that a large enough target market to target it ? marketing: Well , I I I think especially in terms of growth , I think this would be a very smart group to target .  s three quarters of the next age group , twenty five to thirty five are interested , and  with the technologies improving , if we can get these  project manager: In real numbers , does the ninety one percent and the seventy six percent translate to ex in excess of the four million ? marketing: Yeah . But would you pay more and does it work and is it approachable and and did I know that it was it was an project manager:  . industrial designer:  marketing: I don't know if speech recognition should be  should be included , project manager:  . marketing: but I think it's an interesting I think that maybe shows more about  being open to technology . user interface:  it definitely needs  a lot more research marketing: Shall I go back ? user interface: on like how much more it would be and any , you know , existing examples , marketing: Yeah , yeah . industrial designer: How d I'm wondering how how ou how our target price compares with the the typical price of these things . I expect an Industrial Designer should know that , but if we're aiming to to build this thing for twelve Euros fifty ,  is that a lot or a little ? marketing: Exactly .  I I I  did not receive any information on that , but I think the competition , sussing out what other people are doing and what's in the pipeline is very very important , because  there is a question about do you want an L_C_D_ screen and and that wasn't responded to , but  some of the larger remotes do have screens where you can navigate , you know , so it turns into something  perhaps you all have seen  the Osbournes where Ozzy Osbourne is is attempting to manage his super entertainment system with something that looks like a  a small tray . marketing: You know , project manager: marketing: it's I a and I think , you know industrial designer: He must be w one of a s small population . But I think the key is to get the early adopters , people who are familiar with technology and and  they'll be project manager: But we're not looking at whether they're early adopters on that screen , marketing:  . I yes , and I'm making and I'm making the the   leap that people who are familiar younger people are l are more familiar with technology than than older people . marketing: I think the most important thing is an attractive streamlined remote control and to be extraordinarily reductionist , power , channel , volume and everything else is is  up to the designers . industrial designer: And if you want it to go into slide show mode , it's that little button there . user interface: Can I not just  do each one in order ? industrial designer: I you can if you like , it it that that just sets it up to do a p a p project manager: There we are . user interface: That ? industrial designer: Left , left a bit , left a bit , that one , yep .  well I think first off , basically I do agree with what Sarah has defined as as  your personal preferences,yeah . And what we all need to discuss is whether we want these functions  pretty much the same as what existing remotes have . If we can build on this with the speech recognition , that's not something I'd thought about at all , but it's also something we can discuss . user interface:  and and I presume we can miss out the functions really to to a video or D_V_D_ remote control , if this is only gonna be a , you know , satellite , cable , T_V_ remote control . It also has seems to have channel up and channel down , which is which is more what you'd expect from a , you know , like a Sky or cable remote control project manager:  .  but I think we should be looking more along the lines of the one on the right , which has it also has play , stop and pause and everything , I don't think we need them at all . I think we just need channel selection , volume up , volume down and I think an an enter function where you can access it's not like teletext , but along the same lines , access things on the screen .  not related to the internet one that you mentioned , because that'd be far outside our budget and what we want this to do . user interface: So it really exceed the requirements , 'cause the requirements really are just want to be able to change channels and functions , which is more a text on the screen thing than  than actual buttons project manager: Okay . user interface: o I was thinking something some smooth , sleek , little remote control with big user-friendly buttons and  a menu that you can access . user interface: But we could go back to the pictures of the  , what're they called ? The pictures of the remote controls and possibly discuss what we think about them , marketing: Or if user interface: but maybe should hear what Kate has to say first . marketing: Maybe afterwards we could do a  whiteboard with that your the one on the right as a as a basis . project manager: I think the white that one on the right is , as well as less cluttered , marketing: user interface: Definitely less cluttered and  but still it's project manager: It's there user interface: Sorry project manager: but it's user interface: I was just I'll just  resume something else I was gonna say . user interface: I I I really think we need to  not only possibly even materials , like the type of plastic used , but everything including size and shape of buttons , positioning of buttons , the actual shape of the hand-held device , colours , just every e yeah , everything to do with this has to be revolutionised . Okay  , now I wanna bring us down to earth again I'm afraid and talk about the actual practicalities of how the thing needs to work .  basically I've been doing a little bit of web-based research , and if I had a design team , I would've been discussing my ideas with 'em . But the the net result is that I've come up with a first cut for the working design that I'd like to discuss with you . And the the basic components we've got to build in for our twelve Euros fifty are  an energy source , the user interface and which will  in incorporate  an integrated circuit that actually composes the message  based on what the which buttons the user presses , we turn that into a message ,  and then we need a sending mechanism to send it to the receiver . I would have have hoped to  do you a pretty PowerPoint slide of  my first cut design , but unfortunately the technology defeated me , so if you'll bear with me I'll do it on the whiteboard . And the main components in there are the the th the chip that actually has the intelligence of the machine that translates button presses into a message , which it then transfers to some sending mechanism , which encodes it and sends the message to the receiver . But those things as long as we can get those components , the block , that that rectangle for the user interface , is where the user comes in of what what does it look like ? What do the buttons look like ?  what does it feel like ? That's where the user interface is really coming into its own . project manager: The technical end is what's actually gonna be in there , but also it has to be easy enough to change or repair if something goes wrong . For example the battery energy source or  what if the chip , for whatever reason , breaks down after a certain amount of time , do you just replace it ?  is there any  because it may be in the same area with several other user interfaces , like for D_V_D_s , movies , whatever .  does it have to have a a way of being segregated from the others , in a different frequency or something ? industrial designer: Well I may be wrong here , but I'd been thinking of this device as being a a cheap mass-produced device . industrial designer:  that's that's , you know , that's almost one in every tenth household or whatever it is . industrial designer: you just if it goes wrong you chuck it out , and that's why I'm a bit concerned . I like the idea of speech recognition , that's a great idea , but I'm not convinced we can put it into this box for the price that we need gonna need to hit . marketing: Do we have  ki some idea of how much it would cost to create a device that has these basic elements ? user interface: Isn't that your job ? marketing: Because then project manager: Oh . industrial designer: I'm I'm I'm hoping that my personal coach is gonna give me some advice on that , if you're asking me , marketing: I I don't believe I know ,  . industrial designer: but marketing: Be because then we would ha ha figure out how much we had to play with in terms of user interface and this look and feel idea . user interface: It does it does seem as if we're just to do something really simple and mass-produced , the which is pretty much the same as these existing models , marketing: user interface: just maybe a little bit more inspired , marketing: Inspired ? user interface: but basically just the same . user interface: Although what what  suddenly came into my head is , you know how they always take two A_A_ batteries which which is really not very efficient at all . Could it be possible to have  , you know , like a rechargeable internal battery , like , well , like an M_P_ three player does ? With that you could jus or a mobile phone or whatever . user interface: You could you know , you just plug into a power source for a couple of hours , and then it's recharged for ages and ages and ages , and you don't have to worry with replacing A_A_ batteries , marketing: Well user interface: which are marketing: that has another element , which is if every time you're done using the remote you put it on a charger , then you then it has a place . marketing: Yeah , but it also has a place , user interface: And it's not stuck down the back of the sofa . user interface: But then again I d I don't know if this is within our price range or not . industrial designer: Well I  think that's a very interesting idea , but  I'm not a very good industrial designer and I don't know much about what these things cost . industrial designer: Well solar may not be so good when you're watching T_V_ in the night , marketing: Yeah , yeah . user interface: Well it is just so annoying how marketing: Depen project manager: It would have to sor store up the energy marketing:  . user interface: No , but just a rechargeable internal battery would probably  it might cost more to at first to develop and to install , marketing: - user interface: but for long-term use it'll be so much more convenient and economic than fiddling around trying to replace chunky A_A_ batteries and not having any in your kitchen drawer marketing: user interface: and industrial designer: So do you think we might make that a selling point if it was something that we found we could afford to develop ? user interface: you know f marketing: Definitely , project manager:  . marketing: 'cause I'm thinking in terms of   the loss and breakage of  remotes , how much of that is is to do with it not really having a  a home , a  a nest , a place to live , user interface:  . marketing: So if you can dock it ,  you know , you could s argue that this is project manager: And the dock could look very fancy and that could be your inspiration of having it looking decent . project manager: Are we agreed as to what our target group is though ? Pretty much , so that we'd be looking for the younger end . marketing: Well I I brought up some exactly , but I think you raised some good questions about are there enough of these people out there , or are they making purchasing decisions ? industrial designer:  . industrial designer: Yeah , marketing: You know , industrial designer: I was wondering that , marketing: these are the industrial designer: because I ag I agree that there there're people with  how can I put it , more money than sense and who are liable to buy something new , project manager: I I s usually put more money than brains . industrial designer: but Bu but what I was gonna say was , although they they may be buying  , you know , personal music devices and all that , marketing: Oh oh oh I'll make a note of that , Kate . industrial designer: are they necessarily buying T_V_ remote controls ? Because they probably live in a household that has a T_V_ if they're at the lower end of the age range , marketing: Yeah . marketing: It might be good to know   who , you know , who's actually buying televisions and are we in a   s region where people have more than one television in a home ? industrial designer:  . I think we've got a big hill to climb here , haven't we ?  we've gotta persuade people who've got a remote control 'cause it came with the telly that they should buy our product instead . project manager: Or do we s make sure that it goes to the man through the manufacturer ? We sell to the manufacturer as the remote that goes with it . project manager: What would be a more efficient way of doing it ? marketing: Yeah , and and some of our D_V_D_ players incidentally have them , because we have the relationship with our own department , but moreover we need to to go for the the manufacturers . user interface: We're not gonna get any resolutions by the end of the day , project manager: Probably not . Our functions , we've so far decided , I think , that power , channel , volume make it attractive . It has to have big user-friendly buttons and sh n definitely we wanna be inspired that the current styles are just plain awful . marketing: Do we need  let me project manager: Is that agreeable to everyone ? marketing: Br actually ,  industrial designer: industrial designer: Do you want the gizmo ? marketing: yeah , which might project manager: Throw some light on that . project manager:  actually we're , you know , we are almost a half hour out of the forty minutes , so we have to get close to finishing . marketing: Okay , I I my only comment is I think maybe  we could somehow include an enter key in like a power key if power power was enter and pow that was my only just really in terms of streamlining . Again , you know , project manager: Is that okay with you ? marketing: thinking of menus or user interface: Sorry , project manager: Would that industrial designer: H how does that work ? user interface: I was miles away . industrial designer: How so so how does that work , user interface: I was re I was reading the chart to be honest . industrial designer: how do you avoid switching the thing off when you actually wanna press enter ? marketing: if you're pressing enter , the the thing would already be on , and so maybe  when you press power , initially it turns it on , press power again and use that as an enter  project manager: Then you'd have to have an off te off key . marketing: so you press power after you've  well I was thinking maybe you to turn it off you'd have to press power twice in succession , industrial designer: Okay , yep , marketing: and maybe power follows something like a channel up channel down power , and then that would make that choice . industrial designer: It's not getting a bit complicated ? Could granny do this , marketing: Well industrial designer: or are we just not aiming at granny ? marketing: Or y yeah . user interface: Who's got an iPod then ? industrial designer: marketing: Yeah , project manager:  . Anyway ,  that was the only comment about  some of the the decisions people have made , what's most important . user interface: Yeah , things like screen settings and audio settings , I would generally do them on the actual television itself , marketing: Exactly . user interface: like here you have a you know , a little flap th with a little control panel on the actual box itself . user interface: I I wouldn't know how to do it using a remote control , marketing: Yeah . project manager: I guess easy to use is the other thing that we want 'em to be able to do . project manager: As you said , you know , don't make it too hard for the granny . project manager:  so are we agreed then of those things ? And let's go back to agenda marketing: D project manager: and hook me up . industrial designer: How do you do that ? How do you make it do both ? project manager:  you have to keep doing the financi the the F_N_ and F_ eight to five minutes to finish , industrial designer: Ah okay , it toggles through , project manager: thank you a lot for telling me .  will be completed q questionnaire ,  then we'll have some time for individual work to continue our research  and I'll put some minutes of this meeting together .  your individual assignments are for  Kate to do the components , for you , Steph , to do the user interface and for you the trend-watching .  and you'd mentioned I I was just gonna say , could you reiterate the new project requirements , project manager: Okay . marketing: because it they were it has to be for a T_V_ , just to keep myself project manager:  the teletext is outdated , industrial designer: So we're still in meeting , aren't we ? project manager: the internet is important , marketing: Yeah , I think I've project manager: it's only to be for a T_V_ and it must include the corporate image , colour and slogan  marketing: Okay . Sorry , what what actually are these is that the yellow and black ? project manager: It doesn't tell me 