project manager: 'Kay so we'll try to zip through this , since we're short on time .  so this is our functional design meeting , we're going to consider  user needs , technical effects , and the working design of our remote control .  I've been taking meetings on the minute minutes on the meetings , and I'll be putting them in the shared documents folder so if there's anything you need to refer to you can find them in there .  so can we have updates from everyone from what you've worked on just kind of a quick summary of anything interesting that you'd like to share or discuss in this marketing: And I can start if you want .  , how do I put this industrial designer: Just  marketing: I'll just put the cable in . So what happens it doesn't work ? project manager: It sh it takes a few seconds I think . industrial designer: You may need to user interface: Who's that ? marketing: user interface: marketing: No . industrial designer: But sometimes you have to do it marketing: Is it in the right thing ? industrial designer: it's like a three set setting cycle , so press it a couple times , hold down function and then press F_ eight . In order to see what the functional requirements were to be found ,  a hundred people were tested in a usability laboratory through just their habits to n know their habits were observed and questionnaires were given out . Custome Customers and users don't like the way remote controls look , they don't like the way they feel , they don't think they match their operating behaviour , and an example is what we were talking about , the buttons , they only use ten per cent of the buttons , so later on there's a study of the buttons that they use most and I think we should design according to these buttons . marketing: according to the frequency of use and the relevance of each buttons , I have made a list of the buttons that we should focus on in order of importance . The other ones are the settings , and they're used less than you know zero point eight to zero point five times per hour , and this means that I think we can we could have like a a button for all the settings , and then , just one , and then from there go on to the audio on the screen , either on the remote or on the television .  , about the screen , and speech recognition , some people are more willing than others to actually pay for that . And if we look at the market , f people from well from fifteen to thirty five year old year olds , I don't really know how to describe this ,  ninety one to seventy six percent of people in that age range are willing to pay more for this sort of product , while people that are above thirty five years ol  years old go from thirty five percent to eight percent , so people that are sixty five for example wouldn't actually pay for this sort of thing .  I don't I don't know  what the decision to be made is , but I think that the people that actually do buy remotes m more are those like teenagers and young professionals and  , most likely , but we should discuss this together . marketing: Shall I what do I do ? Do I give this to someone else ? project manager: Yeah . Okay so now I need to press F_ eight , what is it ? project manager:  function F_ eight . What's function ? project manager: It's the little blue w it's the one th user interface: Oh function , I see it . This my presentation about the  technical functions design and I basically just tried to focus on  just what what functions we need and how to make that the best function for the user . project manager: user interface: And okay so basically  I think i  like it is really important that we sort of get this done in a user friendly and fashionable way .  so I think things like  you know keeping buttons together that like close together that  are used in the same way ,  or  maybe that making 'em the same colour , keeping the number of buttons the  leas you know to a minimum , and also things like is it is it  is it  can you c y small enough large enough I'm not sure we c I guess we would need to do some research about , I would , about what size is appropriate and that sort of thing ,  but basically we need to make sure that it turns on and off the T_V_ . Does it have like capacity to change the channels ?  does it do or do we need to have like functions for cable or V_C_R_ ? And then , is it findable , and  how do we wanna do that ? And  I just thought that these two remotes were pretty boring ,  I dunno if this will work but And I think we can find something that's more fun to look at and use than either of those . Just  I like the one on the right better , just because it does have fewer buttons ,  but  I think we sh can sort of think about things like  like colour and you know size , shapes , that sort of thing , to best fit the user . industrial designer: Okay so this is on the working design , which is sort of the  mechanical functions of the remote ,  and the method I used was to basically look at existing designs and incorporate ideas from our last meeting .  so I think we need two basic functions which is just the basic remote functions , the user can input a channel or volume setting and it will be output to the T_V_ . And also we talked about  a location function where maybe you could press a button on the T_V_ and it would send sort of signal to the remote where it would beep or flash or vibrate or whatever to tell you where the remote is . So the components we need are an energy source to power the remote ,  input which would probably be buttons , although  we just talked about voice recognition , processor to take the information ,  something to transmit it to the T_V_ , and we also need something on the remote that would receive the location signal and have an output , like possibly a beep or a vibration . And also you need a sender for location signal , which would probably be a separate  thing that we'd have to sell with the remote and people could stick it on their T_V_ or stick it on their wall . Power comes from the battery , goes to the chip ,  and then it is sent from there to an infrared bulb which is probably the easiest way to send to the T_V_ . And then for the location function , you would have a sender on the T_V_ which would output some sort of signal ,  we could use I_R_ but we'd probably wanna use radio instead . That signal would go to a receiver which it would process it , and it would be output in the form of a buzzer or a light lighting up .  so my personal preferences for how to build the remote would probably be  , battery for the energy source , that way you wouldn't have to plug it in ,  a button pad for input ,  we can purchase a pre-made chip which will handle all the processing stuff , I_R_ transmitter to communicate to the T_V_ , that's just sort of standard ,  so most T_V_s have an I_R_ receiver . Probably a radio receiver to send out location function and to receive it and I'd probably say a buzzer for the location function on the remote itself . user interface: Do you know about like industrial designer:  ? user interface: I dunno , you seem like you know about industrial designer: Yeah ,  I d I was an engineer before I came here .  we have we'll discuss that and then I just wanna mention some new project requirements that came in .  , teletext is apparently outdated , so due to internet popularity , so that's off the list .  , industrial designer: project manager: also our remote should be used only for television , no extra internet kinda fancy things , just the remote and the television .  and also we need to incorporate our corporate image onto this , so  the phrase is , we put fashion in electronics , so let's be fashionable I guess .  if we have something  silver and and gold or yellow are our colours , so if we had a like a kind of silver one like you saw , and yellow writing , something like that . Do Let's industrial designer: project manager: I guess we should yeah make some kind of brainstorming , see what we can user interface: Like in terms of marketing: How it looks or user interface: how it looks , or like what it does ? project manager: wha what  well probably our target group and how it's gonna going to appeal to our target group and I dunno the the s user interface: Okay . So Is our target group then people so do we wanna go ahead and design this thing with the finder button ? project manager: I think that seems to yeah . user interface: So then our target age group would be the nineteen to thirty five range , project manager: Yeah , teenagers and young professionals . industrial designer: I was thinking about that but   speech recognition is really hard to programme , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: and also , if the T_V_ is on it's making sound and the people on the T_V_ are talking , and if somebody says like one , then the T_V_'s gonna switch itself to channel one , marketing: Yeah yeah yeah . industrial designer: project manager: And if if you consider our budget , it probably user interface: marketing: But  the screen is the same as what , industrial designer: It's a cool idea but project manager: if you consider our budget , to h have speech recognition programmed in every single remote might be a little pricey . user interface: Okay so are we gonna have just some kind of a like we'll have the buzzer on the som like on the T_V_ itself . industrial designer: Well you would have to have a button on a T_V_ or on your wall or some place since the T_V_ already has power . industrial designer: Yeah you click the button , it's gonna send out a signal , and I was thinking , I_R_ is line of sight , so unless the remote is like actually in front of the T_V_ it's not gonna work ,  so probably like a radio signal like on a on a cell phone . industrial designer: Sends out a signal and then the the remote hears the signal and so it beeps probably . project manager: So you you'd need like a separate base for that or like something you can industrial designer: It would have to be sold separately because if the sender's on the remote then you'd have to find the remote first to click the button to find the remote . marketing: So do you plug it in the T_ you plug it in T_V_ , this thing ? industrial designer: Yeah , it'd probably just stick it on your T_V_ so if you need to find the remote , click the button . project manager: So do you think even though we're not talking about speek speech recognition our target group should still be teenagers and young professionals . Are we  should that thing be on the thing to put the you s you talking about a home for it . marketing: Do you still want to build a little thing next to the telly or to p hang on the wall or shall we leave that for now ? project manager: We probably leave that .  I guess one takes care of the other , like  if you can yeah if you can call it then it's marketing: Okay . For the so you have that button , that so there's is there a light or shall we leave just have a radio ? industrial designer:  on the T_V_ or on the phone ? marketing: Are we just having a radio ? On the phone . industrial designer:  it seemed like a a beep seemed the most reasonable to me , user interface: T marketing: You don't need a light . industrial designer:  when you need to find your phone , you just have someone call it and it starts ringing somewhere and then you can figure out that it's in the couch or wherever . project manager: And like if the if the phone's under the couch , you might not see the light , so marketing: You can hear it's under the couch yeah . project manager: So  the two remotes that you had shown r I don't remember who showed them , yeah you you did  , industrial designer: user interface: That was that was me . project manager: they're  one looked like it was for V_C_R_ type thing , and the other looked like just television . user interface: I think w I think they're both sort of just like general remo they're both general remotes . 'Cause that that is something we have to decide , is whether we want to have V_C_R_ capabilities . user interface: And  industrial designer: Does anyone know if V_C_R_s are the same across international ? user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: Okay , so you'd need like a whole different set of buttons for everybody's V_C_R_s . marketing: It not V_H_S_ here ? project manager: But D_V_D_ probably is . user interface:  project manager: And and if we're if we're targeting young professionals and teenagers ,  it's gonna be D_V_D_ type , that's the the technology these days . Okay , let's see if I can I think still though , it shouldn't be that hard to take like just reduce the number of buttons you know , project manager: Yeah . user interface: like 'cause if you just have like one menu button , that works like with a you know , or you can just kind of scroll through the options u that come up on the T_V_ . marketing: Well for sure we need the  I think we can just design the channels ?  power's just a button , and it's not used that much , project manager: S user interface: Yeah . project manager: You know , I've seen some remotes that where you just hold one , like if you hold one down it's it's a different colour than the other buttons but that turns it on . So you don't actually have a separate power button , it's just marketing: Oh okay , yeah . Just 'cause I wouldn't I would probably pick it up and just be like  why is there no on button . marketing: Well even  iPod thing , like  , I don't know if people like this but if you want to reduce the number , of buttons , instead of having like one to nine , have a sort of user interface: That sort of like joystick flat touch thing , yeah . Because people li seem now the iPod's out people seem to like this thing that there's no Know you don't have one two three four five user interface: Yeah , yeah . user interface: it's it's funny like you f like I just I don't have an iPod but like I , you know , I just like started messing around with one of my friend's the other day , and you just sort of and it's funny how you pick it up and you just figure out how to use it quite easily , like it's not that hard , you know . It is really but do you need a screen then , do you have to have a screen then ? marketing: Well can't it tell the like can't you if you industrial designer: Yeah , you can have the number going around in the corner . marketing: you can have the number on the telly going like one two three four five once you scroll and then user interface: Yeah . project manager: Oh that's gonna Is that like on on a mouse pad where like kind of user interface: Like a disc . marketing: And then you can have  if you actually just want to zap , you can have like a thing like that , and that , and then it can just be plus and minus . So like it's like a little part of the circle that Or it oh so it's just a region of the circle that you can marketing: Yeah , you can project manager: Well i user interface: zap . project manager: We could we could even have four buttons , like , if that's the if that's the mouse , you could have the volume and the channel changers just like on that as well . So volume could be like the top it and the bottom So do you need to industrial designer: Doesn't it rotate though , user interface: okay . user interface: Well y you have to you have to like be able to change the function of it to like marketing: What do you mean the function ? user interface:  like okay , 'cause so I dunno , I guess Okay so when you g scroll your thumb like around it , it'll s like say you're go you're going clockwise . That that means you're gonna go up the channels , and then you scroll the other way and it'll go down . user interface: so if you wanna switch to the to u do you have to switch to a function where like y so you're either in that mode or you're in the mode where like it just has like the four like you know this is channel that way , that's that way and volume is up and down . Okay so you have to like press this middle region and then you can scroll up , go up and down . project manager: So it's like holding marketing: And then well if you do that it goes , but if you like that makes more sense 'cause there's already ones with up and down here , that I've seen . project manager: You can o And you you is there an extra actual button ? Or are you actually you're just using the mouse to go up and down . marketing: Well what you project manager: Like user interface: It's like a b marketing: for the iPod you press an w right if you're on the channel let's say , then you press on the middle and then if you do that again the volume goes up , and if you do that it goes down . marketing: But if you wanna keep it with volume here and here , I'm pretty sure project manager: Well  if if you're gonna this for channels , right , then y wouldn't the volume need to be separate somehow ? marketing: Yeah . project manager: Like you could just have marketing: I don't know , project manager: Oh , like marketing: you could click and then have it up and down , project manager: Oh you could actually user interface: Like marketing: but I think user interface: I think we can go on the fact that it does just work with the iPod . user interface: But the only thing is like , iPods are so expensive , like , it has to be is that part of project manager: Is that what makes them expensi I think it's all of industrial designer: I don't think so . project manager: they have so much memory though , that's it's user interface: You don't think so ? Okay . I think it's the  h it's their capabili  they it can hold what like five thousand songs or something . I'm thinking we could if if we're hav So ba  but an iPod just has that circle thing you know . industrial designer: And they're re-programmable aren't they ? project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: You can put on your songs and then put on a different set , project manager: Yeah . Well like since it just has the circle thing , you could make it a qui a kind of cool shape , like it could be a cool sort of you know , because it could be circular , you know , or something weird like that , just marketing: Yeah . Because , the other thing , I didn't tell you all my presentation , is that people find it find that it's a big waste of time to have to learn how to use your remote user interface: Yeah . user interface: This is just for T_V_ , it's not for or it is does need to be compatible with project manager:  industrial designer: I A D_V_D_ is simple , you just have play , pause , eject , user interface: Yeah . project manager: You know actually our our new project requirements , I'm not sure if they meant o onl use only for television as in not for D_V_D_ or just not internet type things . project manager: So I'll I'll check that and update you on the next user interface: Okay . So like if we had that project manager: But we'll hold off on that 'cause user interface: Yeah . user interface: So , I know I'm not c really clear on what industrial designer: But it's cool to have it all on one , because you wanna turn it on then you wanna turn up the volume , and then you wanna go to the menu , so you don't wanna switch . user interface: I think you would have to have like a function switch button , you know somewhere so like you can you're either on T_V_ , you're on D_V_D_ or you're on V_C_R_ , or you're like . user interface: Yeah , marketing: Yeah , it is only fun user interface: but  like to switch the fun so like to switch the function of the little circle disc , the touch pad . But I think the circle only does channel isn't applicable to D_V_D_ really 'cause you don't wanna user interface: Yeah but it it would be industrial designer: but volume is and volume is actually controlled on the T_V_ so you don't have to switch . user interface: So but I'm saying like , does it make sense to have like some kind of a button , so like you're if you're on T_V_ , like you can switch channels , but then if  if you're on D_V_D_ then like the channel bu like the the region of the disc that was for channels is for like switching to different tracks or s you know , to different  do we need to think about that , project manager: yeah , let's think about it user interface: that like industrial designer: Yes we can try that 