I've done more PowerPoints in this particular experiment than I've ever done in my life before this experiment industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: So  here we have our detailed design meeting where we will  look at the prototype and  right so  , I finally figured out what this whole second bullet point is about in my that my coach was sending to me . Otherwise it's just saying I'm the secretary marketing: project manager: and I'm therefore I'm taking the minutes , s so just to go  just real briefly to go over minutes from last meeting , I will open them slowly , no ? Wait for it , wait for it . user interface: project manager: This is , this is very high-powered stuff here , double-clicking , there we go . So  basically the moral of the story from our last minute  last meeting was that  we that we had meetings from  we had presentations done by the Industrial Designer ,  or from Nathan , and Ron and from Sarah about what we can do here  and what sort of limitations we're operating with   excuse me what limitations we're operating under , what kind of risk we'd be looking at with some of the various approaches we were discussing and we essentially came to the conclusion that we should develop a remote with  voice recognition , I_E_ that had a vaguely non-remote like shape  because you didn't really need to use it as a remote since you could just use your voice . That would include some mostly just the simple design features for a television operation but with a slide or a fold-out bay for more advanced functions for users .  , and  the   the U_I_D_ and the I_D_ were asked to go ahead and start developing a prototype for us to look at . What's to be said about it ?  , we took into account a lot of the things that we went over in the last meeting ,  . Some of the most important things to consider are that we decided not to go for the touch screen which you can see project manager: This is going to be the on off button project manager: industrial designer: and we have these buttons to go through the channels  and then two volume buttons down here , d  we decided those were the most important  buttons . And then , for the more advanced  functions there is a slide out panel here  and you can see that there are lots of other things going on . But this actually can slide back in and provides a very nice aesthetic when it's all put away ,  . As far as the  whole visible light thing , we decided to go with the multiple colours coming out , user interface: marketing: Ah . user interface: industrial designer: Of course , if that's annoying for some people that function can be turned off . user interface: No it's important to we talked a quite a bit about  you know the the interchangeable  faces and what we've done here is come up with a bit of a natural look here marketing:  . user interface: of course that's  interchangeable industrial designer: user interface: and  I think it would be desirable for the  for the regular product in the in the in the in the first packaging to be something a little bit more subdued marketing:  'kay . user interface:  and as you can see on the television there  we have the  voice detector device  on the top there .  , what other things do we see here , well ,  if you give it a touch it does have actually a bit of a spongy feel , project manager: user interface: so I think that will work well with regards to our market .  and  let's see , well clearly there's gonna be some more colours and what not available .   do you have anything else to add to that ? industrial designer:  I worried about the materials , it is  the entire thing is covered in a rubber coating so it's very durable  , it's not gonna break like some types of plastic that's dropped .  , and of course as you can see and if you touch it it does have that nice squishy feel . user interface: It's actually important to note that the television ,  you know if there's an earthquake or anything like that , that i it actually is edible inside . project manager: industrial designer: user interface: marketing: industrial designer: Fact , I dunno if you noticed , but I wrote the  the company's name on the telephone screen , project manager: Oh well done yeah , yeah oh ok industrial designer: I thought that was kinda nice . marketing: project manager: industrial designer: This user interface: marketing: Do we need to worry about  rot factors ? project manager: user interface:  it's encased in a new  type of  marketing: Oh okay , there's preservatives involved , project manager: industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: we don't need to worry , industrial designer: We got a bit ahead of ourselves , user interface: It's fine . industrial designer: I know we're not talking about making televisions at this point or anything like that , but user interface:  . user interface: but I think that's I think that sums up the main features of our of the remote , project manager: Brilliant . user interface:  I dunno if you guys have any questions or f whether that  whether we need to worry about any  other marketing areas or anything of that nature . This cost well to put this into  production , we're looking at about what was our goal ? It was twelve fifty Euro  and this actually came in at about eleven ninety nine . industrial designer: One thing that we didn't do  obviously we had a choice with the buttons whether to use scroll buttons or standard rubber buttons , but we just went for a classic rubber button and  since we did that marketing:  . industrial designer: we didn't have to use as many microchips which was quite nice and that's what helped keep the cost down . industrial designer: So even though it has a lot of modern technology ,  for example the voice recognition , marketing:  . industrial designer: in a lot of ways it's just a simple remote and  I think if we shopped around for other manufacturers  we might be able to get even cheaper . Did we talk about the voice recognition  option ? industrial designer: And Oh no , we haven't talked about that yet have we ? user interface: So  so  yeah on the back here you all noticed this area here which is actually the voice recognition   console project manager: marketing: Okay . user interface: but basically the voice recognition  incorporates  the latest designs that our research team has been able to cufw  come up with . industrial designer: Any questions ? project manager: No , no marketing: Do we have  other , for lack of a better word , skins ? Covers ? project manager: I think that's user interface: marketing: In play now or are those ones gonna be developed later once we see how the couple we have g go or ? industrial designer: do you wanna answer this one marketing: Do we know where we stand on that yet ? industrial designer: or do you want me to answer it ? user interface: Well we didn't quite have enough material  . user interface: Oh I see , marketing: I just didn't know if you guys had any in mind yet . industrial designer: well as you can see this is just a most superficial layer and  it'd be very easy to put another layer of something else like marketing: Okay . marketing: And the whole thing project manager: marketing: Okay user interface: So  there are I marketing: Right user interface: we definitely priced out a spongy even spongier non-natural look  materials marketing: Yeah . We also continued on with the ideas that f following  Apple's colour schemes with the kind of the  light orange and the green . industrial designer: It's not it's not quite a a face plate , it's more like a pseudo-face plate because it's simple enough marketing: Okay . industrial designer: that in the factory it could we could very easily put a different one on it , it locks into place such that , you know , it's pretty permanent but at the same time , if we wanna go the other way it's just a matter of a couple of adjustments and we could go the face plate way marketing: Okay .  , what we need to discuss now is the finance of it ,  I got me you've got you provided a number that actually sounds quite nice . project manager: I'm just gonna clear this out real quickly , but it looks like So we'll just if we can just itemize what's in here , we've got this it's a solar cell thing right ? industrial designer: Right project manager: With a back-up battery ? industrial designer:  we didn't really touch on that but it it's in there , project manager: With the ba okay .  so I guess that would mean we've got a bit of a  It's a s a speaker and a sensor at the same time isn't it ? industrial designer: Yeah , yeah .  and the case , it's more of a single-curved case , I guess would be that be the general industrial designer: Yeah , one big curve I guess you could say . Push button interface  with this other drop-down so maybe we've got two push button interfaces don't we ? industrial designer: Yeah , And  a special I guess it's  we've got a sort of a wood materi a rubbery type material that throughout , industrial designer: Yeah , special . industrial designer: And s I guess you have to mark special colour and special form as well , don't you ? 'Cause it i it is very unconventional , project manager: Yeah , it's it's quite unique . project manager: I like it , yeah it's So it looks like marketing: M come in at sixteen ? project manager: a bit over budget ,  . Huh , doesn't match up does it ? user interface: marketing: project manager: So what we could do perhaps , a simple fix would maybe to switch away from the solar cells  or take out the back-up battery .  industrial designer: How do you feel about that ? user interface:  I think that  if we're talking about it being one of our main selling features , being environmental and without the batteries and what not , although it does still have a battery so I'm not sure that you know what the sell is on that . industrial designer:  we could take we could take the battery out of it you see and it'd probably work ninety nine per cent of the time but you're gonna have to set up a call centre for that one per cent of the time when people are calling and saying oh look my remote isn't working user interface: project manager: industrial designer: it's hard to scrap the whole cell battery idea 'cause that's so integral to the theme that we have . What's difficult , we have all these things integral to the  to the design of it that we just can't back out of now , marketing: Nah . project manager: it would have to be seems like we'd have to go back to square one in a way .  if we were gonna try to undo one bit we'd probably have to undo most of it ,  user interface: industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: Although we don't wanna get rid of the whole environmental  obviously the solar cell is a big piece of the way we're marketing this as like a natural , new thing , but honestly if we cut that one piece out we're actually coming in under budget if I've done my math correctly . user interface:  you might be able to sway me on the idea that we our main selling point could be already this voice recognition thing marketing:  user interface:  that's what sets us apart marketing: Which , it's user interface: right ? marketing: yeah that's what setting us into this young market ,  that's where we started from , so I don't know , and  you know perhaps when the cell technology comes down in price we can bring that back into the game but it looks like at this point that may be out of our league . user interface: And the reality is you know , for me from an ideological stand point , I'd like to stick with the  the solar cell , but I h kind of have to throw myself in the in the business structure model here marketing: Right . user interface: and  you know I think I think that I think that we need to come to a compromise here project manager: It's either or . industrial designer: It's the only way we're gonna get below our  goal isn't it ? Of twelve fifty . project manager: 'Cause we can't remove the push buttons 'cause they're industrial designer: Yeah , . marketing: It kind of project manager:  and we can't get rid of the   removing the user interface: Savings . project manager: changing the case wouldn't be so much of a - , nor would changing the case materials .  , so I guess now we just go to the project evaluation which I will allow Sarah to take over . project manager: That'd be great industrial designer: user interface: marketing: I didn't even do that one on purpose either , user interface: marketing: damn . Okay , basically I was just evaluating  from what we know of how our product's working right now with the criteria that we set at the beginning of these are the things we needed to do , these are the things that look like we feel they're important .  so I was looking at basic design things , does it fulfil its functions as a remote ? Is the design what we wanted it to do ? I are technologies up to where we hoped they would be and does it fulfil the aesthetic qualities that our original market research was looking for ?  . Basic questions like , you know , does it turn on ? Does it respond to voice recognition ? And overall , in general , it looks like it's coming up to par . marketing: the only thing is with with the pull-out panel , that is , can it take some adjusting because it's a new sort of interface ,  that looked like it was coming up rough , but then , once you get used to it , it does make a lot of sense . It looks like it's going over well , so user interface: And the paging function works well , industrial designer: Six ? user interface: that's good to hear , marketing: we're we're good yeah . It's I think eventually if we do  branch out with this product maybe we do have a higher budget options and if it goes over with this model we can look into  wider range voice recognition like from other rooms of the house and stuff , but for now , what we've got is working in the range we need it for , so it's all good . industrial designer: I am bit disappointed about losing the solar panel marketing: That's everything from me . marketing: Yeah , it is a set-back , but industrial designer: marketing: Okay , do you need the cord back ? project manager:  yeah , user interface: W we might have  we might have lost that granola market again project manager: I was just go on . user interface: that we're project manager: Well they don't own tellys anyway do they ? industrial designer: True .  so I guess we are going to discuss  our project process  marketing: industrial designer: user interface: project manager: and that is gonna go into my report . So I guess this is the point where we go   out of role it looks like and talk about our satisfaction for room for creativity and so forth and how that all worked , I guess ,  . industrial designer: Right so it's just kind of a open mic kind of thing or marketing: Okay . marketing: It is now , industrial designer: user interface: marketing: you're in charge there you go . so user interface: project manager: But I trust that she would jump in if I was so okay fair enough . project manager:  right ,  so any thoughts ? industrial designer: Are we considering these points here ? marketing:  . project manager: What do you guys feel about the process ? industrial designer: marketing: you know I think in general , for a day's worth of work we actually were relatively productive , project manager: and the technology has definitely been a help , it's really been interesting to try out all this new stuff . We could now if that'd make up for it user interface: And marketing: but really industrial designer: marketing: and I feel like if you guys had been designing in here perhaps that would have changed but because of room constraints , doesn't really matter . user interface: also had I not been intrigued about the pen , I don't think I woulda used it at all , I didn't write barely anything . marketing: Yeah I think I was taking notes more often than usual industrial designer: Yeah , it's true . project manager: marketing: Yeah , but I didn't get a response industrial designer: What if you get a response two or three months from now ? user interface: marketing: so project manager: marketing: we'll see . industrial designer: marketing: Well user interface: industrial designer: marketing: what kind of coaching is that really ? What if I really needed something . project manager: industrial designer: user interface: I so n I think there was a lot of room for creativity , I don't we could do whatever basically what we wanted until the budget came down on us ,  . And even then we did get a decent product turned out although it's not everything we wanted it to be . industrial designer: user interface: project manager: That's the brilliance of they had a p they had a peeler in here . industrial designer: user interface: project manager: marketing: And highly resourceful team mates might I add industrial designer: project manager: industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: And to prove that we weren't wasteful we didn't waste a single bit of Play-Doh , we used every bit . industrial designer: Yeah , user interface: industrial designer: I guess user interface: industrial designer: My one my one criticism is that we didn't have enough colours to work with , project manager: user interface: marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: I think it was pretty clever 'cause we were never able to get too far off track because the information came in at the right time and kind of filled in the gaps enough . industrial designer: At the same time you had enough room to kind of just make things up , project manager: marketing: Do your own . marketing: Though I did feel like th the level of information dropped off severely over the course of the day . marketing:  maybe it's just me but I didn't actually get any information for the last presentation at all . marketing: Nothing , I didn't even get an email , user interface: marketing: like industrial designer: marketing: that was it . So , yeah , I feel like that was slightly lacking but then you know , fill in the blanks on your own , level of creativity upped . user interface: Well I think that was I think that was an issue I kept finding with regard to marketing: Whatever . user interface: well no but also yeah when I was reporting about what each of us was doing I was often confused as to what you were doing industrial designer:  . industrial designer: You know user interface:  and then I also felt like you know a lot of our discussion would centre around n specifically what my task was marketing:  . user interface: but and then in the end I think our jobs kind of melded together a little bit more , industrial designer: Yeah . I think the most helpful thing out of everything was getting the the PowerPoint slides already put together for you user interface: which was fine . industrial designer: 'cause if we didn't have that there's no way we could have got all that done in time . project manager: She said I I I she actually made a comment off boy you're getting into this and I really I think it's true I did get I I felt like I got way too into it . That's kind of a good thing though , project manager: I felt like I slipped into it a lot . user interface: An so is that the first time you've taken on that kind of role ? project manager: The first time I've ever done anything like yeah project project management . project manager: it's one thing to do , you know set up a party with your friends , user interface: project manager: you know ? industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: But you guys felt that you could keep the , yeah , suspension of disbelief kind of like like the role and the okay ? marketing: Yeah . user interface: marketing: and I knew we were all lying through our teeth , industrial designer: user interface: I had to admit , as soon as w we started  as soon as we got the Play-Doh , th you know the whole concept of really trying to stick with reality went out the window . industrial designer: project manager: Maybe in in Legos you know ? Be fun with Legos too , user interface: Possibly . project manager: like make a remote control or spaceship , we used to have spaceship Legos did you guys ever used to build spaceships with Legos user interface: Oh yeah , marketing: Yeah . project manager:  you guys felt like there was enough teamwork in all ? industrial designer: Yeah ? marketing: I think so . user interface: project manager: No I , no I dunno , I d I I dunno , industrial designer: You don't . project manager: I don't I I was just I marketing: Though we didn't actually  other than minor discussion at meetings there wasn't except for the actual building , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: It's true huh ? marketing: but I feel like if this was a team project there actually would have been much more of the collaborative like brainstorming , use the board well and this would have been six months' worth of work , not like three hours' worth of meetings . user interface: I think had the issue been more serious we probably woulda brainstormed more during our meetings as a team . Course I'm I'm conscious of the idea of the Project Manager asking if you guys feel like there's a team you know it's like , kind of like , like  . industrial designer: project manager: It d marketing: Yeah that is kind of project manager: But yeah . It's kind of fascinating wasn't it ?  the whole process of industrial designer: Wonder why is there anything about the way that we got so much inform what was it that kept us from going to the the board ? project manager: I don't know . I I don't know if there was a ri I th marketing: Mine was the mics . I didn't feel like getting up and down and dealing with all these wires , industrial designer: Yeah , that's it marketing: I was afraid I was gonna break something actually . industrial designer: 'cause the mics are loose and each time you get up it's s a possibility of tripping over something or getting tangled or . True , but it didn't even occur to me as an option , project manager: Nor I . marketing:  I don't know that I would have but I know that I consciously didn't . user interface:  it's just like the paper I don't know what I really needed the paper for . project manager: I wanna see wh wh what my my handwriting looks like digitized marketing: I know . industrial designer: Yeah , project manager: just to see what it looks like in P_D_F_ format or something . Usually I would do a lot more doodling too but I didn't because user interface: marketing: I know , I felt like I needed to be professional so I didn't like draw all over my paper and stuff . project manager: industrial designer: marketing: Okay , well not entirely , but still , I doodled less than I usually do . industrial designer: user interface: project manager: T I I'm curious about what the de-briefing is gonna be like . user interface: So is this all we need to get through ? project manager: I dunno , I'm not sure what the new ideas found i is about . user interface: Is it marketing: It did it just say in an email that we need to discuss that ? project manager: Well , that's the thing I got i in the email I got this PowerPoint file but this slide was just there , marketing: That slide was like that ? project manager: user interface: Any new ideas with regard to remote control concepts ? project manager: W I kinda like th industrial designer: No , none . user interface: project manager: Yeah you can't industrial designer: I think they're fine actually . marketing: I am thinking outside the little square box though , with literally in like form project manager: Yeah . project manager: Does kinda make you wonder , how much can you do with a remote control ? It's like inventing a new car . Yeah yeah , you can marketing: It's still gotta be technically car shaped or it won't fit on the road , project manager: Yeah . user interface: What is that ? Our limited ability to think outside the box ? project manager: So this was other costs . I think this is marketing: Oh , how long was our meeting supposed to be ? project manager: forty ish marketing: How much time do we have left ? project manager: I I I  we should go on a bit yeah about the project eval ,  . project manager: you know what is marketing: Yeah , at the beginning it started out and I felt actually like under pressure like the first couple were taking a lot of work project manager: Yep . marketing: and I was like had like all this brainstorming I was doing industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: and then suddenly I was like well it's just another two minute presentation that you guys don't really care about anyway user interface: Why ? project manager: Hey . marketing: like we all sort of knew where we were headed with it so it didn't feel like it mattered anymore . industrial designer: Definitely when when I first filled out the questionnaire I was marking it probably higher in terms of how much I had to how much I stressed over it user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: and then by the time I got to the last one I was like , you know , not very much . user interface: Think it was also realisation of you basically just copy and paste what's given to you into your presentation industrial designer: Yeah . I di user interface: Oh I added like five slides too , marketing: See project manager: Oh . industrial designer: I just got blank ones project manager: What ? Really ? industrial designer: and marketing: My slides were all blank , they'd have a title maybe user interface: Yeah , mine too . project manager: yeah they didn't come like this ? Like with this was what it looks like . This is what that looked like , marketing: Like with those words already on it ? project manager: literally , just like that . user interface: I added many slides every time marketing: Hey industrial designer: marketing: with the whole new background being innovative , yeah that was class . project manager: industrial designer: I think it would fail , I think marketing: I can't just leave it there . project manager: user interface: industrial designer: it'd be a huge disaster , especially if it looks like that . marketing: I think it would take extensive marketing , okay , an apple with a red button on top , even I am sceptical . user interface: Actually that looked a lot more like a tongue from previous to  fr some other design  modifications . user interface: I hope you appreciate the  incorporation of some tin foil from a  random Kit-Kat bar project manager: marketing: I I noticed that . industrial designer: Yeah , it's  user interface: So again I reiterate my question of how different we are comp compared to the other groups , especially between culture groups and what not . You know from the the the basics to the conce industrial designer: I wanna see a marketing: I Yeah . project manager: although the whole concepts thing , the whole concepts phase , I don't think I really understood like the concept . project manager: yeah  i it's not like I have a concept of a mug's material , it's just it is what it is . project manager: maybe i rather than concepts i it should be th thought of we sh I I thought of I thought of rather than in terms of concepts I thought of it in terms of proposed idea . industrial designer: So we have more slides or ? marketing: project manager: No just this closing one . No we've established that the costs weren't really within budget , but we could s you know do it marketing: We got it to be . project manager: We did the project evaluation based on  Sarah's evaluation of on off switches marketing: Like cutting corners . Kind of , project manager: and marketing: though it was really technically an evaluation of the product , not the project in general . marketing: Which I'm not sure is the same thing , at the time that just i made more sense , but I could see if they were really asking about us . project manager: I'm supposed to do this final report thing at the end so I'll put all that into the final report as well , or as much as seems like maybe not like the articles and stuff , like because and if and so forth , but I'll put most of it in the reports . marketing: I've done transcription before and it's really ridiculous how many words people say like just in the middle of their sentences like that project manager: Oh yeah . project manager: There's a whole branch of psychology that looks into that , psycholinguistics . user interface: What the uhs and the marketing: There's a guy studying it here , yeah , he's studying ums and ahs or something . industrial designer: Filler words or ? project manager: Yep , they're called  disfluencies . industrial designer: I find myself hitting the send and receive button on the email a lot , just out of boredom , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: project manager: Well to be fair we're we're hooked we're all hooked on the internet , so  I do the marketing: Yeah , we are addicts . user interface: Well just around that eight or or nine people that are project manager: I know , imagine we went the first ten y fifteen years of our lives without the internet . It's only in the last ten that we're like where's the internet ? marketing: Yeah . project manager: you know , it just in the past five we've gone from twenty eight eight modems to broadband all the time . project manager: No we have but I not in the sense that it's so un you know  ubiquitous marketing: I yeah . marketing: But it's not regular  my grandparents had it in the eighties and I got it in ninety four , but still . user interface: In the eighties ? marketing: My  grammy does computer science back in the States and so they had  an E_D_U_ and gov network . marketing: There's basically the fundamental structures , but it wasn't  household to household yet user interface: Right . marketing: because it hadn't been user interface: Yeah , it was to the like seven universities or something . project manager: 'Kay I guess we can probably call that meeting to an end for the most part . marketing: industrial designer: project manager: Where do you find that ? marketing: I have no idea . user interface: industrial designer: Is that the only song you have ? user interface: There is another one . project manager: Is this one of those media player ? industrial designer: marketing: user interface: Huh ? project manager: W oh . project manager: That's one that seems to be shipping with it  shipped with for a while , maybe this is the new version . marketing: So is that a close ? project manager: Yeah , I guess we'll call that a a doner 