marketing: user interface: I will also be responsible for the functional design phase , the conceptual design phase and the detailed design phase of the user interface design . industrial designer: project manager: marketing: I'll be telling you guys about the user requirement specifications for our new product .  , I'll be doing some trend-watching in the conceptual design , and product evaluation for the design phase . project manager: Alright I'm Heather and I've I said I'm your Project Manager ,  Well you can pretty much read what it is that I'm doing . And  tool training is one thing that we're going to be doing today ,   as well as planning the project , how we're going to , create this product , and , discuss , our aims and objects of this , Which brings us to our next subject , industrial designer: project manager: is , marketing: project manager: as a team we're going to be designing and creating a new kind of remote control .  , we want this to be a marketable product that can be trendy , a completely new style , so that , can really appeal to a , to a generation that doesn't want a simple plain kind of , channel-changer . And , it needs to be user-friendly for , maybe , for an example , for people that , can't see the numbers as well , or , perhaps an ergonomic design . So this is a television remote control ? project manager: Yes , it's a television remote control .  , the way that we're going to go about this is , we'll have a time where we can ,  come up with new ideas alone , and , and work on the project and then , after we've brainstormed and , and thought about , we can come together in a meeting and , and discuss what , what  , what kind of functional design we want to use . So , making sure that it , it's usable , that as a ,  and that it's , it's feasible to create , and  , to come up with a concept of it want , what we want it to look like . project manager:  One thing that , we're going to do is become more acquainted with the , the tools that we have access to for our project . And , as a sort of team-building moment , I , I'd like us to , try out the whiteboard by expressing our favourite animal and the charac characteristics of that animal . industrial designer: marketing: user interface: project manager: why that , why that should be your favourite animal . project manager: 'Kay , what's my favourite animal ? industrial designer: project manager: Do come up . Oh , project manager: This is a team-building time industrial designer: are we all doing it individually ? user interface: Yeah . project manager: where , industrial designer: Okay , let's stand up and support you project manager: okay cool ,  industrial designer: project manager: My favourite animal , which changes all the time , okay , industrial designer: user interface: project manager: right now it is an elk . user interface: An elk ? marketing: project manager: alright , so user interface: A vicious project manager: And it goes like Yeah it's got like big antlers , user interface: project manager: yeah . industrial designer: user interface: marketing: industrial designer: Do you have elk where you come from ? project manager: Yes . user interface: I'm quite project manager: This is my user interface: marketing: Oh , very shapely . project manager: That's a sketching of my my elk , and it , it is my favourite animal right now , 'cause it is a large beautiful majestic creature , user interface: project manager: that  , that  user interface: project manager: In a way it looks kind of awkward , because it's on spindly legs and it  user interface: project manager: But it can really overcome harsh terrain , and although it's gorgeous it's also very dangerous , because it has  strong antlers , and  it can really combat its enemies , even like it it's a it's an herbivore but , it can really defend itself . industrial designer: project manager: Right , I'm gonna take minutes while , you guys express your favourite animals . like all sorts of animals , but for the moment I'm gonna draw a cat , in memory of my poor cat that died recently . user interface: industrial designer: user interface: industrial designer: Not as artistic as Heather's drawing . project manager: industrial designer: But I like cats because they're so independent , and they always seem to be doing what they want to be doing .  , but that doesn't mean they're completely not sociable , 'cause they enjoy interacting with humans as well , and they seem to enjoy the good things like sunshine and , running around outside as well as being inside , and enjoying their food , and generally just , they just seemed so cool and they just know what they're doing . I think my favourite animal would be a dog , but I'm not really sure how to draw one . I'm tempted to draw a snail 'cause I draw them sometimes and they're really easy to draw . user interface: right it's gonna be a really funny dog , 'cause I'm not sure how to draw a dog . industrial designer: Well there are loads of different types of dogs , so I'm sure it'll represent one kind of dog . project manager: industrial designer: user interface: A s I don't ev Oh , oh well . user interface: How do you draw a dog ? I suppose it has a lon Oh my god .  , I like dogs because , they're so good to humans , like they can be trained to be police dogs and seeing-eye dogs , and they're just such friendly animals . project manager: marketing: user interface: But they're just so friendly and warm and nice animals , project manager: user interface: that don't look like that . I'm going to draw a butterfly , because I saw a butterfly yesterday , that seemed to be like the symbol of Spring arriving . And it was actually the prettiest butterfly I've ever seen out in the wild , and I though that was pretty cool in Scotland . And then it kinda there was a green , I think it was a green ring , and there was like red going out like this . user interface: marketing: Yeah , it kinda was actually , 'cause it was This part of the body was really dull , and then it was the most colourful exotic butterfly ever , and I'm like , wow this is the middle of Scotland in like March . So that's gonna be my favourite animal because after all the snow it seemed to say that like Spring is finally here . project manager: Do you hear the eraser buzzing while you do that ? marketing: Yes I do . marketing: project manager: So , now that we know how to use the whiteboard , industrial designer: Okay . project manager: the next , thing we need to address is our financial department , to meet our our budget ,  or not meet our budget but more , like what kind of , selling range we'll be looking at , wanna make this  selling price of twenty five Euros . And so we have to , come up with a way to , to create a , a  remote control , where  we can like the price to create it will be significantly less .  , one thing we'd have to think about internationally is in the design of , like different kinds of , V_C_R_s .  , industrial designer: project manager: so now that , that is underway ,  industrial designer: project manager: it is discussion time . So this is time for us to bring our initial ideas , any  suggestions that you may have so far , a  your personal experiences with remote controls , and  , areas you see that , could be improved in your experience with them . Does anyone have any initial thoughts ? marketing: I find that in the dark it's often hard to know what button you're pushing . So what's something we could , do to remedy that ? industrial designer: marketing: industrial designer: Okay . project manager: industrial designer: It's always , where is the remote control ? user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: So maybe if you could have some kind of tracking device for the remote control or some signal that you could find out where it was . user interface: Do yous not find that , like , there's a lot of , buttons on your remote control , and you don't know what half of them do . There's some remote controls where there's kind of a hidden panel , so all those buttons that you don't really use unless you're programming or something . marketing: So you just have like the number buttons , power button , T_V_ video button . Maybe it could be , instead of like a standard rectangular shape , it could be , something more interesting like marketing: project manager: Any ideas will do that you have at this point . Like , I've seen phones like a project manager: Well if it's a trendy original , aspect we're going for . project manager: you're the designers , you c , you can  decide what kind of , direction you wanna go in , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: but at this point in the , in the first meeting it can be any ideas that we just throw out there . I suppose , if we're he heading to have it , like make a huge profit out of this , it needs to be quite a universally accepted thing . Like , a novelty thing might only sell a few things rather than , like , a general kind of more acceptable user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: But we don't wanna go towards boring , 'cause that wouldn't sell either . project manager: U_I_D_ the technical functions design will , will be worked on the next thirty minutes .  , maybe how this can be achieved , and , we need the user requirements from the manag Marketing Expert 