 then we'll do the evaluation , and then we can finish up after that with  any changes that we'll need to make , or hopefully everything will fall right in line . Then we looked at the components  the materials for the case , the different energy sources , the different types of chips ,  and made a decision on what we were going to use to make our remote . industrial designer: Can try to plug that in there user interface: There is our remo the banana . project manager: user interface:  but it would be held in such a fashion , marketing: user interface: where it is , obviously it wouldn't be that floppy 'cause this would be hard plastic . So that's so that would hopefully help with grip , or like the ergonomics of it . user interface: And the the simplest functions would be  almost identical to an iPod , where that one way ch through channels , that way th other way through channels . And then to access the more complicated functions you'd you sorta go , you press that and go through the menus . T that blue bits should be yellow , that that'd be where the batteries would be I suppose . user interface: Is there anything you want to add ? industrial designer: That's what we have there .  you're supposed to hold it like that , but  just if you grab it , take it from somewhere , user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: Right ?  that's not  project manager: industrial designer: I'd say a bit smaller would probably be nice . user interface: It's you know it's flimsy 'cause it's made out of heavy Play-Doh , marketing: project manager: Would you like to  industrial designer: Right .  so the criteria we're gonna be looking at are the complaints  that we heard from the users who were interviewed earlier . So for the first one , we need to decide , did we solved the problem of the users who complained about an ugly remote ? industrial designer: . project manager: So if they think that what is out there is ugly , then yes I would say , I would say most definitely . industrial designer: I'd say , when it comes to the ergonomics , the form and stuff , yes that's definitely more beautiful than your average . industrial designer: So  to answer that honestly I would rather say like  , we have not solved the problem completely with the ugly remote because the colour is ugly , definitely . industrial designer: But project manager: Yeah something more modern to go a a modern colour to go with the modern form . You don't want your  three feet huge L_C_D_ dis display in your living room that's hanging from the wall to be controlled with something like that . marketing:  okay so , do you think , since we This was a a sign criteria , do you think maybe we should put it somewhere in the middle then ? industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: marketing: What do you think ? Three ? Four ? project manager: I would say marketing: Five ? project manager: four . Did we make it simple for new users ? industrial designer: It's very intuitive , I think yeah . 'Cause we've we've brought it down to basically four controls most common , which are channel and volume . project manager: So if we incorporate speech recognition into it then it could user interface: Just just to use , to find it when it was lost . But like I said , like I don't think you'd lose something so yellow so easily . user interface: And it's not gonna fall , like a rectangle would slip down behind things . That's gonna be a difficult shape to industrial designer: Well what project manager: And it is quite bright and user interface: Yeah . marketing: user interface: Maybe in the middle again , three or four or something ? project manager:  industrial designer: S marketing: Okay . user interface:  you know loo losing things is one of those things that people can lose ,  a million ways . user interface: You can pick it up and walk away with it and then you've lost it . project manager: But if we do go with the , with the speech recognition , then it , then our scale goes up quite a bit I think . If we eliminate the fact that you know it's impossible to guarantee that it's not gonna be lost then user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: marketing: project manager: With the speech recognition , which of course may be changed depending on budget . project manager: Which , which may be cheaper than speech recognition if it were just a industrial designer: Yes . marketing: Annoying alarm or something ? project manager: industrial designer: It's it's marketing: Yeah . user interface: So it can't be that industrial designer:  the it's based on this anti anti-theft technology for suitcases and stuff , user interface: expensive . industrial designer: where you have one piece that's attached to your luggage , another piece that starts beeping . industrial designer: So that can also easily be integrated because these things are small enough to to hide , so you have one piece , you have to glue somewhere behind your stick it behind your T_V_ and the other user interface: stick it on the T_V_ . Are we adding one of these two features ? industrial designer: Let's add one of those features and say yes . industrial designer: user interface:  don't get many mo remote controls with industrial designer: It's all just user interface: screens on . industrial designer: It's all just stolen technology when it comes down to user interface: Yeah it's stolen technology . project manager: But there's not a lot of yellow , there's not a lotta yellow . project manager: Course that wasn't really industrial designer: right user interface: Fa industrial designer: right right . marketing: But how many remotes do you see like this ? user interface: project manager: If we added the screaming factor then we go up . industrial designer: user interface: marketing: project manager:  I would say we're probably at four . Because it's only got what , these parts are the grips and perhaps the back side the bottom the underneath on the back . marketing: And lastly , did we put the fashion in electronics ? project manager: industrial designer: Y yes . marketing: industrial designer: Well the recent fashion is rather displayed in the in the L_C_D_ and the way you operate it than the form and the colour , user interface: On the project manager: It's true . industrial designer: but it definitely is user interface: Be what we were told , and they'd say yeah , definitely . project manager: Two point marketing: project manager: two point four ? user interface: Is that some long division ? No . project manager: And what what is the acceptable criteria ? Is there like a scale that we have to hit ? marketing: Oh no . They just told me to industrial designer: marketing: pick my own criteria and have you guys evaluate it basically . industrial designer:  project manager: The f the Wonder if I can make this industrial designer:  project manager: What the Oh it won't let me do that . I can't 'cause I don't have my glasses on , industrial designer: project manager: but so we've got the energy source .  and how many batteries do we think this will probably take ? user interface: project manager: Probably some e either two or four . industrial designer: At four it's gonna be too heavy , so that that's not our problem . industrial designer: project manager: Alright so for the electronics our choices are simpl simple chip-on-print , regular chip-on-print , advanced chip-on-print , sample sensor , sample speaker . user interface: We're advanced chip are we ? industrial designer: That's the advanced chip-on-print , yeah . project manager: Is that right or is it just one ? industrial designer: No that's just one . project manager: Maybe it's one because of the industrial designer: It's just one mo single mould , we can do that . project manager: I guess it doesn't matter 'cause the price on that one is zero , which is nice . We have pushbutton , scroll-wheel interface , integrated scroll-wheel pushbutton , and an L_C_D_ display . user interface: marketing: user interface: S industrial designer: S user interface: That's Yeah . project manager: So we actually have the L_C_D_ display marketing: user interface: And then project manager: and then is it the integrated or is it user interface: I'd say the integrated . project manager: user interface: marketing: industrial designer: Say mahogany or so marketing: It'd look really lovely . project manager: Well we only have one button so really we shouldn't be charged , industrial designer:  just marketing: industrial designer: project manager: we shouldn't be charged anything for the the button supplements . We're gonna leave that one blank because we run on a L_C_D_ and scroll . So we'll go for the hand dynamo huh ? project manager: user interface: marketing: project manager: So the only thing better than  a banana-shaped remote is one that you shake . user interface: If it w What if we completely took out the the one single button we've got on . I suppose the L_C_D_ C_ display's the one that's pushing it up a bit though . project manager: Yeah 'cause the marketing: project manager: Well 'cause we have to have both right ? user interface: Yeah . industrial designer:  let's let's face it , it also depends on the software on the on the television . industrial designer: You can have the the information that this thing transmits be being displayed on the on the screen . industrial designer: So s yeah let's take away the user interface: Yeah you could maybe take out the L_C_D_ dis display even , industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: if it if it comes up on the computer itsel on the T_V_ itself . project manager: So we may not need the L_C_D_ display ? user interface:  that is possible yeah . project manager: industrial designer: Okay , the user interface: marketing: project manager: Besides look at what the L_C_D_ does to our lovely remote . industrial designer: So we can just take away a heck of a lot of the marketing: user interface: marketing: . central ? marketing: What's the blue part ? user interface: That was just industrial designer: Oh that's just user interface: we ran out of yellow .  project process , satisfaction with , for example , room for creativity , leadership , teamwork , means , new ideas found . project manager: Yeah I think user interface: We sort of knew where we were going straight away I thought . marketing: project manager:   marketing: project manager: But as the day went along we had more idea of what we were doing .  I think we tried a lotta different things and  I think it was  interesting as you guys brought up more  information and studies that we were right on with a lot of those things . project manager: I had some problem with the pen I think , but minus your p marketing: Minus your PowerPoint fiasco . Incom industrial designer:  they've just you know user interface: project manager: Have a industrial designer: Heads are gonna roll , believe me . And then we'll have to check with the main boss whether we can , what goes on after that 