Let's shall we all introduce ourselves ? marketing: Hi I'm Chiara , I'm the  Marketing Expert .  , would you like me to talk about my aims at the moment , or would you like me to just say my name and then we can talk about business later ? project manager: I think we'll get around to that , yeah . I forgot to s say I'm the Project Manager but I figured you all knew that already , industrial designer: user interface: project manager:  so . And to do this , we have to  there's certain things we have to consider about functional aspects and conceptual design of the thing . user interface: So you want us to draw it and then talk about it ? Or just draw it ? project manager: marketing: I think both . project manager: Does anyone know what they wanna draw ? industrial designer: user interface: I gotta think about it for a second like .  Does it have to be functional , trendy and user friendly ? project manager: I don't think so . user interface: Yeah , it's industrial designer: project manager: 'S like playing Pictionary . project manager: So what characteristics do you like about your animal ? industrial designer: user interface: I like its tail . industrial designer: user interface: no , I think dolphins are really  I dunno , they're smart and they they're cute and they like swimming and that's cool , like project manager: They're graceful . user interface: Yeah they're sleek industrial designer: user interface: and they look intelligent and I don't know , they're I guess it's the whole like binocular vision thing . He's a I dunno  they're I think it's cool the the  the interaction that or the th things that the reasons people seem to like you know you get ex you know people are sitting on the beach and p they're like oh look there's dolphins and it's kinda like but they're you know they jump around in the water and they're happy and they're mammals , but they swim . project manager: I dunno if the the industrial designer: I think the pen is running out of marketing: Well I had the cat as well , but  I've got a spare one .  I don't really know how the legs go , industrial designer: project manager: That's very good . I think they're very pretty and they go well with the environment , and I like the way they run and I used to do horse riding and they're just very sort of sturdy and nice animals . And I like the way  they feel , sort of under under the hand , I think that's pretty much it . industrial designer: marketing: project manager: So I'm thinking we should design a remote control that's water resistant , strong and furry . So I'm guessing that we're not actually in Scotland , we're in some European country . user interface: Sorry can you just say that what's the what are our price goals again ? project manager:  selling price is twenty five Euro . marketing: How many should we sell then ?  , a lot , project manager: Anyone a mathematician ? marketing: two two two million , two mi no , more f four million . And it industrial designer: marketing: well it's the profit so if a profit for each is twelve fifty , that'll do four million .  , I don't know what these mean because I didn't actually make the slide-show . So I guess we have to reflect on our experiences with remote controls to decide what  we would like to see in a convenient , practical , nice remote control .  so do we have any initial ideas for  how this remote control should be designed or formatted or the the buttons it should have . marketing: I think one thing is that it should be easy to find industrial designer: user interface: I was thinking that too . user interface: I think we should design something that has like a so you can like somehow like you  you always know where your T_V_ is , so just have a call button , industrial designer: user interface: I've always wanted that , project manager: Yeah . user interface: so like you can push a button on your T_V_ marketing: Yeah , yeah yeah yeah yeah . user interface: Yeah , yeah yeah yeah , so you should have a call button on your television to be able to find your remote control . marketing: In which case you're going to be l but if it has a sort of signal which isn't any sound user interface: Yeah . marketing: I don't know if it's expensive maybe to user interface: I don't yeah  it but like  marketing: Maybe call is enough . user interface: just  like your phone even just has so like it can vibrate , it can light up and make noise and I dunno marketing: Yeah yeah yeah . project manager: What if it had something like  just like a magnet on the back of it and you could  j just to have some place to put it besides like a base . user interface: Yeah , project manager: 'Cause people just stick it on top of their T_V_ , but the point of having a remote is not to have to walk over to the T_V_ , so user interface:  industrial designer: Well that's why it's always in the couch . marketing: project manager: user interface: I dunno , it seems like though that that would be hard , 'cause you not you're not gonna be lazy anyway and project manager: Yeah . marketing: But even just a thing to attach it to the w you know if you had a thing , a pretty object attached to the wall . project manager: Do you think it needs to be bigger to not lose , or does that not factor in ? marketing: And the other thing is user interface: Bigger . marketing: Not well it needs to be sort of project manager: Like Hand hand held size , yeah . I don't think you need a project manager: Not not huge , but industrial designer: marketing: But definitely not well I don't know . industrial designer: project manager: industrial designer: user interface: That would be really I'm sure we could do that for twenty five Euros a pop .  , oh we just user interface: I also think though that it shouldn't have too many buttons , industrial designer: Yeah , I agree . user interface:  I know it has to have enough functions but like , I don't know you , just have like eight thousand buttons and you're like , no , you never use half of them . project manager: You what if  may be a little fancy but what if it had like a little screen , so it has less buttons but it still has all the functions .  it just seems like project manager: So you could like  like if you have I dunno if you have satellite if you have a hundred channels , you can the way you do it on your radio is that you  user interface: yeah . project manager: s y yeah but you can programme , so you can programme like your favourite channels , so like if you had a s marketing: But , would you have the screen on the thing , or would you have it on the telly transmitting the screen . marketing: Because , I don't know if it's I think it's e expensive , if you have if you use the telly screen , 'cause the telly's already a screen , then you can pro sort of have a programming function , really easy sort of arrow up and down , on the remote , project manager: Yeah . Something like not it's not on the button but it's telling you what to do , project manager: Yeah . user interface: Or like you h you see those you know people I'm thinking of like celebrity cribs kind of things when like they have all those these things that at their house you know their their entire house is so electronic , and they have like this one master control that and it's like a hand held like turns on everything sort of control and it has like a screen and like so I think it should be possible to have some kind of a screen , I don't know if it must be it would probably marketing: Yeah . user interface: marketing: Or some it i we can find out probably on the internet how much it's project manager: Yeah . Yeah , and the other thing you said that thing about robust and water  industrial designer: marketing: What was the word ? user interface: Furry . project manager: Oh I was just user interface: marketing: No but it's I thought , ah , spot on . industrial designer: marketing: Good feel , tact tactile , good tactile feel , project manager: Yeah . project manager: Maybe  just like a simple thing to have a clip on it , like so you can clip it to your user interface: Yeah . We should probably start wrapping up ,  we've got some initial ideas that we can all look into .  , and come up with some new ones for the next meeting , which will be in another thirty minutes . The Industrial Designer , what does that stand for , I_D_ , industrial designer: Yeah I think so . So I guess you'd be looking at lots of the things we discussed about screen and  that sort of thing . I guess that maybe the working design has also to do with like the physical feat like just the way it looks and the way it w user interface: So technical function . user interface: What is technical functions exactl I I don't really know what project manager: I guess you'd have to find out . user interface: It does but it I just don't really industrial designer: I wrote down what mine were . marketing: Be a medium between you and the telly I think , user interface: Yeah , yeah . project manager: And the M_E_ , what does that stand for ? M industrial designer: Marketing 