project manager:  after the opening we're going to have a prototype presentation , then we're going to discuss the evaluation criteria and the financing of our remote . Then we're going to evaluate the product and I think the whole production process , and then we're gonna close it up , and we have forty minutes , so let's get started . Well , since our materials aren't exactly what we were going for , I'm just gonna translate what this all means for you . user interface: The base is gonna be gunmetal gray , which is what we had decided , and it's gonna be plastic . user interface: The whole thing lights up if you press any button , rather than it just that one button will light up . industrial designer: On off switch will be here and as you've noticed on our prototype  they've ended up with a curvature kind of , by concave sort of thing , except for , you know , can't see underneath . industrial designer: So I'm hoping that when we get to production we can actually make them like that , because they're very nice to stock you know , stick your finger in .  the two squared buttons are are two probably least used , menu , mute , user interface: Thumb-shaped . industrial designer: and then these are the numbers , so our channel and our volume will be on either side . And then the last thing is just that it'll be black labelling on top , just which we didn't do . And did you determine  the curvature of the bottom part of it for the hand , is it gonna be a single or a double ? user interface: industrial designer: I'd say a single . marketing: Yeah , I think it's a beautiful project manager: It is beautiful , and it's everything that we discussed . project manager: Alright industrial designer: project manager: what's next in our agenda ?  we're gonna discuss the evaluation criteria , and that's with Courtney .  so these are the criteria we're gonna ask , is it easy to use , is it fashionable  yeah , I guess we should write these down so we can reference them . user interface: Feel good meaning what ? marketing: Like does it feel good , like user interface: Physically , project manager: Right . industrial designer: Yeah , it was a little difficult to incorporate the cover with the cherry fruit on it . Okay so , we're using the criteria  for a seven point scale , and so we need to discuss how we feel . It falls within this range , so for easy to use , do we feel it's very easy to use ? project manager: Are we going to indi user interface: True or false , easy to use . project manager: I say we individually rate what do you say ? marketing: You guys project manager: Just orally . user interface: industrial designer: I'll give it a two , because at the moment it's not looking that way . project manager: Oh , and ma it's a prototype , marketing: Well , that's that's just like that's a clay , it's a prototype . user interface: But then I'm not fashionable , so marketing: Yeah , it's a two . marketing:  user interface: marketing: does it feel good ? project manager: Imagine , since we obviously don't have that . user interface: Does it feel good ? marketing: I feel like industrial designer:  the shape of it actually does  . industrial designer: marketing:  yeah ,  and it does it have voice  the phrase recognition on it ? project manager: Yes . It wasn't we have no reflection of it on the prototype , marketing: And there's no way you can represent it on here . marketing: Then yes , then I would well it isn't what else would it need for it to be technologically innovative ? industrial designer: It project manager: Well we don' have the you know , we can't say channel , and it changes the channel , channel eight . marketing: And it doesn't cover anything other then T_V_ , project manager: Right . I'd go for a three or four on that one , so user interface: Yeah I go four . project manager: Alright , and the last criteria is it is it  user interface: Squishy and fruity . project manager: Well , we've covered that with the user interface: It's just trendy , basically . marketing: So  our re model slightly resembling a giant delicious cookie appears to be a winner , project manager: industrial designer: marketing: and  hopefully we'll sell millions . industrial designer: How did you get that in there ? user interface: marketing: What ? industrial designer: The slightly resembling a giant delicious cookie . I'm gonna show you an Excel spreadsheet and we're going to fill it in together based on what components we're including in our remote and see if it's under twelve fifty Euro . If so , we can proceed , if not , we need to go back to the drawing board a little bit .  it's not hand dynamo , it's powered by battery , so we give it a industrial designer: Yep . project manager: But if it's a do you wanna go for this is where we need to make a final call on if it's a lithium or do we wanna go triple A_s , 'cause triple A_s we're gonna have t do more than one battery . What do you say ? industrial designer: Yeah , user interface: marketing: Yeah , let's let's do a lithium . project manager: I think  I think the people who purchase this are gonna be technologically industrial designer: it's . marketing: We're gon that's gon Nologically advanced , project manager: right . We're gonna need this kind , correct , if we do the voice sensor , industrial designer: Yep . marketing: But it's Yeah , project manager: This ? marketing: but i so i industrial designer: Integrated scroll-wheel or push-button . marketing: But will we w actually we'll need two , won't we ? One for the top and then one for the s one e for each side . user interface: Oh like the twenty nine means like you have both scrolls and industrial designer: Push-button . project manager: Right I think she's industrial designer: But we just have push user interface: push-buttons . project manager: I think what Courtney's talking about is do we need to put two here ? marketing: Like because there's like one interface right here and then because it's not gonna be on the same plane when you press the button . marketing: So is that gonna be an extra one on each side ? project manager: I don't know , they might put us well , let's just . user interface: Two interfaces , is that what w should we s say ? project manager: Two or would it be three ? industrial designer: Let's call it th marketing: Or three , because of one on each side and one on top . project manager: and we're gonna user interface: project manager: button supplements the buttons are no  okay . Now we're gonna talk about the project process  and whether or not we're satisfied with the whole process and the result .  did we have a lot of room for creativity ? Did we have a lot of room for individual leadership ,  teamwork , and the means , meaning the technology that we used to produce our little guy there , and if we found any new ideas . Who want who would like to go first ? industrial designer: We think we got stifled for cri creativity by the company itself , in restricting us only to using a T_V_ remote , initially . project manager: And how did you feel about the whole the whole process though ? marketing: Oh , overall  I thought we did a good job like user interface: marketing: We got to choose basically we had control over minus it being just merely a T_V_ remote we got to choose what we wanted to do with it . project manager: Right , and we got say over what how technologically advanced it should be and also how fashionable , which I kind of like marketing: And we're a fashion forward technology company . project manager:  what about  the teamwork aspect ? How did you guys enjoy making the model , the prototype ? marketing: industrial designer: Yeah .  minus you guys being wha what is it , the survey , annoying or what is it ? project manager: Irritating . marketing: And the digital the digital pens user interface: Like it's information project manager: Yeah , digital pens . marketing: Yeah they were fun , even though I'm not really sure what I could do with them , but they are awesome . project manager: Right , laptops are extremely handy , industrial designer: It was wireless too , so . And that we have a shared network where we can put all of the marketing: And these things whoa . industrial designer: project manager: 'Kay , have we found any new ideas through this process ? marketing:  we are really gonna sell this . project manager: For something that looks cool and also has what I want it to b do technologically . project manager: And that's your right brain taking over , w wanting the artistic , the fashionable , the hip , you know . project manager: If we all just went out and bought useful things , I don't think  that's not what technology . user interface: Well , that's why I don't like  Macs or Apples , just 'cause I look at it , and I know it's probably a very good computer , but I look at it , and I'm taken back to elementary school , 'cause they look the same . user interface: Exactly , so I associate them with like really low-tech , really cheap , bad project manager: Yeah . marketing: Yeah , no , iPods They want all those words for presentation , even the plugs .  how many people went out and bough a Nokia phone , back when we were like in high school , just so they could get the changeable face plates . user interface: But the my but my one issue is just like the whole it's for T_V_ only . user interface: I was like who's gonna buy a remote just for the T_V_ unless they've lost theirs . marketing: We could have like an Adam and Eve type commercial , and that's the fig-leaf .  the costs are within the budget , we evaluated the project , user interface: project manager: and now we're gonna complete the final questionnaire and meeting summary , and then we're going to have a big giant party , apparently , according to this , so 