industrial designer: user interface: project manager: Yeah I kinda like this I'm kinda getting into it . So just to kick off the meeting basically  so we're working now for a real reaction , this is  so it right . Just got an agenda to set out what we're gonna try to accomplish in this particular first meeting .  We're gonna just do a quick opening and we can hopefully all get acquainted with one another  then we're gonna start talk a little bit about tool training . Essentially that means getting used to the only thing that we haven't tried out yet , the whiteboard .  we've got a general plan for the project how we're gonna go about accomplishing this and then just a bit of discussion close up .  I guess you know game or something  in real life  so yeah basically I want to I'm just gonna you got of course you can discuss that , I'm thinking about   proposing that since we've got this weird blend of ourselves and our roles that we just don't ask , don't tell .  so  if you say something about marketing , right , sorted ,  y is marketing: You're just gonna believe me , industrial designer: marketing: we'll go from there . project manager: obvi if if you guys if if at the same time if you like logically if something doesn't like if I'm like we're gonna sell a remote control that's the size of this paper book you know  you say like well that doesn't seem like such a good idea because of X_ obviously go with it .  we'll discuss it but I'm not gonna ask do you know that or  yeah it seems like marketing: Prove it project manager: yeah yeah exactly marketing: yeah , okay . project manager: so , 'cause we're what we're sort of role playing is y g yeah you're gonna tap into your own knowledge as well  . And that's the same for your when we do introductions   and you talk about your background you know have fun , you know maybe you went to   you know maybe i you're like in Maine you went to U_C_S_B_ but you wanna say you went to Harvard or something like that , why not , you know industrial designer: marketing: project manager: you can this is you know I guess we can have a little bit of fun with it . So are you guys okay with that does that seem logical ? industrial designer: Oh yeah , that's fine . So I guess that that we're totally we're making a remote control which is thrilling industrial designer: Right . project manager:   but the idea is that we can make something based on the whole corporate model I dunno if you guys had time to check the in real life I dunno if you guys  checked the   the corporate website .  we've got to make something as fashionable as possible , that's kind of the corporate strategy is we're gonna try to take ordinary stuff that nobody really thinks about and try to make it nice you know like John Lewis nice or you know if you go to Debenham's or something . So  basically we are reinventing the wheel but we wanna try to do it in a user friendly  slick sleek kind of way .  way we're gonna go about doing that is basically at first we're gonna start on the basics . And that's where I'm gonna need you guys the User Interface Designers and the   the other designer that I can't remember , marketing: project manager: the the I_D_ and the U_I_D_ right  the Industrial Designer industrial designer: user interface: marketing: project manager: hey right on alright , user interface:  . project manager: to guide me and guide us on this project 'cause you're gonna be you're g you guys are the bottom you know you're like no you can't do that you can't have you know X_ and Y_  at the same time . And then  we'll work up from what is necessary to more like what would be good , you know like  I I think you guys probably got the same emails I did but the idea of  , yes a coffee pot needs to be able to hold coffee but it's also better if it's not like really cheap glass so that it if you touch it you hurt your hand , or something like that .  and so we'll work up from there and  then we'll meet on and talk about it and then finally we'll incorporate as kind of the last stage you know where you guys build or tell me tell us what's possible and then you tell us what we can  hope for and what way to go take the the the take the basics and make it nicer and then ov obviously  the U_I_D_ and the I_D_ you know you you can keep on the you know sort of at the cutting edge of how to get about maximising what is possible  to try t of sync it all up .  right so for now just for th the white board  basically  just to get used to it , I haven't tried it yet either  I'm just gonna start and   carry like five remotes around  and just write down I'm just gonna write down one of the names of my  desert discs you know if you if you were trapped on a desert island and you could only bring five C_D_s along with you name one of them that you could , not all five , if you wanna write all five go for it but name one of them that you could  . marketing: project manager: I'm Marty , industrial designer: user interface: project manager:  I went to uni at  U_C_ Santa Barbara and I'm here working on a P_H_D_ in psychology . So marketing: I'm Sarah , I went to Michigan , and I'm here doing cultural studies and I'm the Marketing Manager or something . industrial designer: I'm Nathan , I'm from California , and I'm here doing a Masters degree in social anthropology . project manager: Where did you go to uni Nathan ? industrial designer: U_C_L_A_ . marketing: So do we have to wait for you to write it down or are you gonna tell us ? project manager: Well I'll t i marketing: I'm waiting to know . See I'm a big music fan I don't know if you guys are , I'm assuming everybody likes music to some lesser or greater extent marketing:  project manager: but there's some other options , if you're a T_V_ slut marketing: Fair enough . project manager: like I am like Smallville terrible television show industrial designer: user interface: project manager: but I happen to love it , marketing: Oh , Smallville .  and  oh well I might as well throw a British person in there  you can't go wrong with Radiohead . Alright so  user interface: project manager: whoever wants to get up next , you can write down some telly that you watch or whatever you want . Right now I'm listening to a lot of somebody nobody's ever heard of , Chris Bathgate , project manager:  . marketing: really lame user interface: marketing: and   what else did I bring with me ? Probably classical , to totally geek it out , project manager: Okay yeah yeah . Isn't h has h industrial designer: project manager: do you watch the new season ? marketing: No . Are you getting it online , project manager: I think I'm gonna start downloading it marketing: or is it on sky ? project manager: yeah . user interface: marketing: It's the five by five , I can't read that much . user interface: I just came from Glasgow project manager:  marketing: Seriously ? user interface: and I'm  happy to say that there's the there's the same quantity approximately . project manager: I have to be here for three years so I might as well get the terminology right . And I'm gonna go home next week and everyone's gonna be like oh my God you're turning into one of those people , project manager: Oh , have you been home yet ? user interface: project manager: They'll be like , say something British , marketing: no . project manager: Bad religion ? marketing: 'Cause industrial designer: Yeah , that's the music I grew up listening to . user interface: industrial designer: And so there marketing: Oh , now I can think of so many other ones . project manager: Where are you from in California by the way ? user interface: industrial designer: I grew up in San Diego , project manager: Did you really ? What part ? industrial designer: but yeah  La Jolla , P_B_ . industrial designer: But really  I last lived in San Francisco , I haven't lived in Cali well I haven't lived in southern California since I was eighteen . project manager: Going to s like North Carol I'm sorry you you just can't get a better burrito than what's available in the s in San Diego . 'Cause in San Diego th the tortillas are cooked on the grill and in northern California they steam them . project manager: Well it's it's i there's other things too there's you just can't place it marketing: Ah . project manager: like I when I went to school in the U_ in Santa Barbara which is central California the Mexican food is okay , it's just not good like and yeah it's like two bucks , industrial designer:  . industrial designer: Close t  do you know where Clare de Lune coffee shop is , project manager: Yes . industrial designer: Cafe Forte project manager: Yeah it's actually like literally half a mile from my house . project manager: a little bit introductions we talked about some of our C_D_s industrial designer: Wow . user interface: project manager: and things we like about the city you know , I think we'll user interface: project manager:  right so marketing: project manager: moving on to not fun stuff  project finance . user interface: project manager:  basically what we're trying to do is sell this remote for twenty five Euros . This is what the finance department has told me , the C_F_O_ but I don't know , I'm not sold on this , it's pretty dear ,  twenty f that's like you know forty bucks for a remote . project manager: what we can maybe work on that a later but we're gonna make a lot on it , the profit aims to make fifty million Euros on it . So  one of the things I I was gonna mention to you  you guys the designers is that  it m we probably need a rever it needs to be a universal remote control probably . project manager: something that could do N_T_S_C_ as well as PAL as well as various other formats like if it's gonna control D_V_D_s marketing: Makes sense . project manager: I'll leave that to you guys but that's something that i i it is gonna be an international sold thing .  s right so  just to close up , I'm not sure how much time I've used  next time right Project Manager , sorted . Is  we'll meet in another half an hour or so  and I'd like the  Industrial Designer to get ge think about what needs to be done , like what the basic function of it .  U_I_D_ well yeah you right g your assignments are up there and you'll also get s assignments from in your email as well more spec specifics on what do do . project manager: So actually in a way you guys c maybe in our next meeting chat a bit about what the user's gonna want and what the user can have , you know like  so marketing: And negotiate that . project manager: yeah well it is and we'll discuss the trade-offs in between  so yeah specific instructions will be sent in your email . But I think that that is more or less a good place to start for now  and as more things come up we'll have meetings and you'll get emails and so forth .  any questions , before we get started ? user interface: I assume that we're building a stand alone  remote control , we can't kind of build it into other  products . project manager: You mean to like user interface: For instance like a mobile phone or something like that . user interface: Or or you know can we produ can we sell a remote control phone for twenty five pounds or less ? project manager: Well , have a think about it . project manager: I'm I'm certainly op it seems like yeah it it seems like it's certainly do-able marketing: W yeah .   or if we can't have a full mobile phone maybe a remote that has some other kind of useful function . We'll see what see what industrial designer: Maybe a remote with changeable faces , like the faces that you can buy for phones . That's true , I guess we we probably have some time , maybe we should brainstorm a bit like what we wanna do , go back to  I don't really have any . user interface: Now are we also discussing kind of our initial ideas at all here ? project manager: Yeah yeah let's do it , let's do . user interface: S does anybody have any initial ideas ? project manager: I'm gonna go ahead and take notes on this too 'cause marketing: Good idea . marketing: right , we decided that already and it may be functioning for other things , as soon as you said that I was thinking like all the other things you could get a remote to do , like your microwave or your front door industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: or like to have everything on one thing , project manager: marketing: but then , I've never been a fan of those huge remotes that have like a million buttons , project manager: user interface: But I'm thinking I'm thinking kind of P_D_A_  design marketing: Yeah . We want it to be munt multifunctional but at the same time if you get it to do too much you're not gonna be able to tell them apart , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: of  so you like maybe like an L_ like a touch screen type of remote ? user interface:  I don't know if there's such a thing out there , I guess we could do some  do some research on or one of us could do some research on it about whether or not there are  multi-format like  you know PAL , N_T_S_C_ , region one marketing: Right . user interface:  I I have a friend who has a P_D_A_ project manager: Okay . user interface: that he just points at his telev any television he wants marketing: That user interface: and it'll figure out the the specifications of it marketing: Yeah . I li I'm liking that idea , this idea of a touch screen remote with multi-format features . industrial designer: I think , making it out of a nice material would be very important , because so many of those remotes that you see , these universal remotes look so cheap and low quality . And I don't know , like , there's such a problem with losing them , project manager: marketing: that adding this whole like P_D_A_ pen business is only one more thing to lose , industrial designer:  . marketing: Just something like keep in mind when we start actually dealing with this stuff but that would be really cool . industrial designer: user interface: In in marketing: Fi b like what are they called , those face plate things ? project manager: Think they're just called face plates ? marketing: Isn't there a name for them ? project manager: I don't know . industrial designer: I think , it wouldn't be such a bad idea to have a like a locator device , maybe a simple button that you have on your television to help you find your remote . user interface: If you're not doing that then we can have something that just kind of rings from either marketing: True . project manager: Cou could we not do something where like just a little lit like literally just a very small kind of thing that comes with the remote that you could place something else that you press and it makes the remote page . Kinda like how on a lot of   cordless regular phones , you have a page button and it goes , user interface: Th marketing: Right . project manager:  yeah I think this material quality as well like I guess what we can think about what kind of   you know Apple 's been really successful with this surgical white kind of business or this sleek kind of marketing:  . marketing: And that titanium the new silver sleek ones that's last couple of years , very much so . project manager: We do have the minimum am amount  we were talking finances I dunno , selling a a forty Pound remote would h or a forty Dollar remote , twenty five Euro remote would be pretty you know it's pretty expensive marketing: Right . Without without getting into that whole like you know go down to bargain store remote you know bargain store universal remote marketing: Right . project manager: But  have a think about what we can do , have a think about what we want to do , how we're gonna sell it marketing: Yeah . project manager: and  marketing: Or if you our users in mind , like these grandmas are not gonna be into this whole new let's design , no it's they're used to the buttons so we'll have to be careful of exactly who we're marketing this to , industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: But user interface: We're talking twenty five Pounds or twenty five Euros ? project manager: Twenty five Euros . project manager: They serve  right they sa tha s they will sell things overseas so you can buy stuff in America marketing:  . Right so  let's go ahead and wrap that up here for now , I'm gonna put these initial ideas that we've got in the  project documents , so if you guys wa need a reminder about what we've talked about  the different you know kind of trade-offs that we've got and the other ideas , you can consult them at your leisure . Let's just  head back to work on what we were talking about bef  goi h h getting into 