Last time we discussed the squishy fruitiness of our remote controls and how we might pursue that .  so for later in the meeting I've done a a spreadsheet of production costs so we'll take a look at that . This is a button , serves as the power button if you hold it down , and if you just tap on it I think it brings up the menu . And  the base of the remote control , which has a squishy spongy rubbery feel , is interchangeable . project manager: Oh is that broccoli ? industrial designer: This one's broccoli . project manager: industrial designer: The it's trendy fruit , it's not just ordinary fruits .  I guess strawberry's not as trendy , but project manager: 'S a very bright strawberry . industrial designer: So we'll come up with a variety of trendy and exciting fruit designs for the remote control . And then people will be encouraged to buy three or five of them , because they'll need to switch 'em out . user interface: It's been a l project manager: user interface: It's been a little bit difficult to  make sure that it's hand-holdable , and that the user can use it , you know , it's not too big .  but we think that this you know , this size will be okay and we will have to fit the battery case in there somehow . user interface: And I guess the only other thing that we really didn't talk about was or design yet actually , would be the  thing the locator . user interface: Okay so that's just industrial designer: And the beeper's also inside there too somewhere user interface: So you have to have a button on your on your you have to attach the button to the industrial designer: Yeah we didn't design that . But if I missed anything that we've gone over , or if you see something that has changed industrial designer: project manager: we decided on batteries , and the regular chip would be necessary for the more advanced iPod-like button . I think that's what you have there , is that right ? For the for the plastic part would be industrial designer: My impression was that flat meant like like one of those square remotes . industrial designer: But it's really not very clear , because you got single curve and double curve and d I dunno what that means . industrial designer: marketing: project manager:  so what else ? There's plastic for that area around the button . Do you see anything that I've missed ? industrial designer: No I think that's alright . project manager: Okay so that would make our total of eleven point nine , which is even less than twelve point five , which means we'd be making even more of a profit . I think that's marketing: So I need where's the cable ? Right what happens is we have to  decide whether this this whole this whole project we've been working on actually  meets the standards we were set at the start .  the method is we well I've analysed the user requirements and integrated them to the trends found in marketing reports and in our company strategy marketing . And  the findings were that we need it to look in a certain way , feel in a certain way , and this is everything's listed down .  , look in a certain way , feel in a certain way , it has to be technologically innovative and it has to be easy to use . We have to use a table , I'll show you that later , together to decide whether it meets the standards . And we we have therefore in total  We have five we have eleven points according to which this should be evaluated . marketing:  so the que the questions I've given you c could you write that down ? True is one and and false is seven . Is it possible that we can bring this up on our own marketing: Yeah it's in the  it's in the project documents . marketing: Do you want us to discuss this together or do you want us to do it singly ? project manager:  we can do it separately and then discuss it marketing: Yeah okay . project manager: Wait , one is true and marketing: project manager: so these are the questions we're answering . And one is marketing: yes it's if it's fancy you put one , project manager: One , right okay . Should be more like Are the batteries easy to insert ? industrial designer: I'm gonna say yes . project manager: Are we just about ready ? marketing: Apparently I'm supposed to use the whiteboard . It's marketing: We'll just do  project manager: yeah the the marker thing kinda stopped working last time we industrial designer: marketing: user interface: Yeah . project manager: Un unless you feel you need it t to marketing: I don't feel any project manager: okay okay . industrial designer: project manager: We'll user interface: marketing: right  Right so one point one ? We'll just go in a circle . Okay so do we just add it up and divide it by four ? Is that what the company does ? project manager: I I think we should industrial designer: It's four if you wanna do that . One point three is user interface: So it's a one was true and seven was false ? project manager:  . industrial designer: Huh ? user interface: Okay , so you guys really didn't like it ? marketing: Yeah . project manager: So we do have about the same thing , we just have it the other way marketing: Well  industrial designer: Sh Yeah I I was thinking one means no points , you know , all the way up to the top . user interface: I was like , why did you guys design it that way if you hated it ? marketing: Yeah . Wait , is that two point one ? industrial designer: Yeah I put it down as one point four for some reason . industrial designer: marketing: Okay I'll  I'll just do the calculations now if you want to continue .  marketing: Or is it tedious ? I'm I'm sorry this was so tedious for everyone . project manager: No no that's  I think we should look at the ones that like where s where people said four , where  it looks like we might wanna discuss changing an aspect of the remote . marketing: do you want to change it ? What are the suggestions ? I don't know , anyone ? project manager:  user interface: Which one is that again sorry ? Three point one ? project manager: user interface: I think marketing: Four point two ? project manager: See I'm having I'm having trouble imagining the is it  gonna be the size , like the the controller ? It or bigger ? industrial designer: I think the wheel would probably be  . project manager: Because user interface: What if we just smash all the vegetables down flat ? project manager: industrial designer: marketing: user interface: And like then it you could hold it in your hand better . industrial designer: I think the base would definitely be larger , 'cause some of these are not as easy to hold . No but I imagine even if it was bigger , like if it's round and it's big then you you can't get that's why remote controls are long because you have that thumb kind of user interface: Yeah . project manager:  but I don't s I I personally don't think this is comfortable to to sit there , like it's an awkward position . But like if if you just squash them flat like and you made it flat industrial designer: Well if they're that s  stress ball stuff they would be pretty squishable . And would it even resemble fruit that way ? industrial designer: project manager:  user interface: Yeah like certain ones you'd have to limit the fruit selection , project manager: Yeah . project manager: industrial designer: marketing: user interface: You could do , although the broccoli is quite comfortable , I have to say , like sorta like a joystick . So industrial designer: marketing: Are there any fruits that look like broccoli , no ? user interface:  . marketing:  despite the user interface: I think we needn't project manager: What if  the it was just patterns on like we we chose the shape or the sh shape could be whatever we wanted and then it would just be like a design on the rubber . project manager: But if we if we need marketing: Yeah and just have the colour match or something . And if we wanna incorporate the fruit thing somehow , there might be user interface: project manager:  if it if it in if it  conflicts with the comfort of actually holdi holding the industrial designer: marketing: user interface: Yeah . user interface: Or like I dunno , some of 'em you can kind of think see as like marketing: user interface: like you could if it was only this you know , if it was shaped like that , and it just had that . But you see the problem is you have to attach that , and this has to be detachable . user interface: So like maybe that's just too big project manager: Well see th the reason the broccoli works is you can kinda hold it like that , user interface: because project manager: which is a nice kind of user interface: Yeah it's sorta like a joystick . project manager:  is there some way we could make it this kind of shape ? user interface: I guess project manager: 'Cause like kind of industrial designer: We could make it that shape but just have different colours , and call 'em the different fruits . project manager: Or like even user interface: Dif industrial designer: We went with shape because we were having fun with the play-dough . project manager: And you could like if it's like this , you could put fruit designs and stuff on that part . project manager: But  it do we have any other ideas about that ? marketing:  user interface: We could tr I don't know . Batteries easy to insert for some reason , industrial designer: marketing: which can be easily I think that's not a problem any more . project manager: The batteries are going in the back ? industrial designer: That everyone gave that a one or a two . project manager: The reason I I ga I didn't give it a one I think I gave it a three because I thought you'd have to like unc clip industrial designer: No I imagine there'd be sort of a hatch door , project manager: no you could Just like any other one . industrial designer: So it would probably either in the f no it can't be in the front 'cause the I_R_'s right there , but it'd be on one of the sides probably . marketing: industrial designer: user interface:  so  I can't think of any So we'll have to like  . You could make the touch pad in th in different shapes , but then that kind of re-designs the whole project like , industrial designer: It might also sort of annoy people if we get used to having the buttons in one shape . project manager: I guess we're supposed to discuss  the prod the process of the project and how satisfied oh , oh it's alright . marketing: It's alright yeah ? project manager:  Did you feel there was a lot of room for creativity in the sort of industrial designer: Sure . marketing: user interface: The prototype making was very creatively stimulating industrial designer: user interface: and I think we've come up with a product that's fun and meets all the criteria . project manager: And how was our leadership and teamwork ? industrial designer: I think it was good . industrial designer: Well you told us when to start and when to end , and that's all that matters . project manager: Yeah , well I'm never gonna do a management position , I know that now . industrial designer: user interface: marketing: project manager:  yeah , I thought we all worked very well together . user interface: Yeah I think it more than anything we didn't really have our set roles so much , as we just would be like I don't know , all had ideas about it but project manager: Yeah . marketing: project manager:  and the means for like the materials we used , how convenient were they ? Like the the pens , the whiteboard , industrial designer: project manager:  we used industrial designer: Well I'm not a big fan of any Microsoft , PowerPoint or any of this stuff . project manager: Are you a Mac person ? industrial designer: No no I never touch Macs either . marketing: industrial designer: I just use the Unix or the off market , sort of WordPerfect and all these other things . Well the problem is if you don't like my new computer never has WordPerfect so I have to go track someone down who has an old disk and then I have to reinstall it . user interface: I felt like my I dunno if it was just my role , but l but  I di I thought that my the information that was available to me was kind of just like or maybe it was just the idea that we had . But there's kinda it was kinda like okay , I don't really think I dunno what I'm doing here . So I kind of just made up my own stuff and I didn't really like the PowerPoint presentations , project manager: Yeah . user interface: But yeah I d I don't really like PowerPoint personally , think it's kinda stupid . project manager: It industrial designer: My first bit of information was like this child's drawn picture of how a remote works . marketing: I though it was brilliant no ? project manager: Really ? user interface: marketing: No mine was really helpful as in my stuff was quite helpful I think . user interface: So like a f marketing: I think it depends on the role project manager: yeah , yeah . marketing: no ? project manager: 'Cause my problem was , you guys had access to like they'd put send you to sites and stuff right ? industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: See I couldn't do that , so I didn't really know what you guys were doing . And when you were talking about it I was just like industrial designer: project manager: you know that's wh that's why I seemed so ignorant when when you were j explaining things , marketing: project manager: 'cause I industrial designer: Yeah well mine was mostly made up except when they told me like you know titanium costs more than wood to make a remote control . marketing: a whole system , industrial designer: marketing: 'cause of course they can't give you   anything comparable to the internet for the project manager: Yeah . user interface: Yeah  , it industrial designer: Well I think it's interesting how it all went together , like I had the stuff about how me how rubber's cheap , and you have how people want it to be spongy , and marketing: Yeah , yeah . user interface: Yeah I kinda thought that  I felt like I would go and like try to use my information , or like I'd make this stupid little presentation and then like I just would end up talking about something completely unrelated industrial designer: user interface: because project manager: Yeah . But  project manager: Well  we really got into talking about like personal practicalit like it wasn't necessarily what was like we would never have thought of fruit or sponginess you know ? industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: So it's industrial designer: If I hadn't been told that fruit was marketing: But I think that it it might be to see whether people actually all come up with the same thing . given certain information or Just marketing: Yeah , like if everyone's given the same input project manager: yeah . marketing:  what's next ? Looks like oh no that's not  project manager: What do you guys think of the pens ? marketing: It's quite project manager: It asks about that . industrial designer: user interface: I I'd like to see what what it looks like on the industrial designer: They're nicer than the pen that I'm using , because like your stuff actually shows up here , rather than having to look at the screen and write . project manager: And new ideas found ? industrial designer: marketing: Yeah it's all very new , project manager: Yeah . user interface: I think the microphones are okay when you're sitting down , but like they're kinda clumsy I guess when you're like when you're s going up to the whiteboard like . user interface:  I think , and I think that  all this technology like I guess some people must be interested in using it but I can't imagine finding it any more useful than like looking at someone's notes , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: Well the thing is , like I actually worked in a company , user interface: or like I dunno . And like the last thing I would have wanted would be to have to watch a video 'cause I missed a meeting . project manager: industrial designer: There's just there's really not that much information that actually goes through a real meeting , like when you're actually at a real meeting in a real company . industrial designer: And you're sort of going over general stuff that anybody who's sort of on task should already know . industrial designer: It's like the there's just really not a lot of information that goes through . industrial designer: Like if I missed a meeting I could probably get it summed up in like one sentence . industrial designer: I wouldn't need to have to watch like a t two hour video with the sound and the transcript and project manager: Yeah . user interface: I guess it would be it's gotta be worth it to I 'cause I'm just mostly curious about like what kind of person or like company would would really find it useful , 'cause can't really imagine , dunno . How about a p a ? project manager: industrial designer: marketing: user interface:  I dunno . project manager: Well does anyone wanna talk about fruit more while we still have time ? industrial designer: project manager: Any other ideas for marketing: What what's the end ? Are we are we supposed to  you supposed to write a report ? Or we ending ? project manager:  we still have time if there's any other input . marketing: Is that the end ? industrial designer: project manager:  the I think we did really well personally , which is why we've you know , gone through this so quickly . 'Cause  we've all we all kind of agreed our product is satisfactory , it fits the budget , and it's trendy 