project manager: S how we doing on our remote ? user interface: project manager: We have some we have some ideas and some  ideas for what people want . user interface:  we yes s I've lo marketing: user interface: I've done the role that I was asked to do anyway .  then we can come to a conclusion on  what we want the remote to do ,  and how it's going to do it hopefully . I'm responsible for leading the meetings , keeping the notes ,  and coming up with the final presentation . So you're gonna come up with the ideas Ryan , and you're gonna pick 'em apart . user interface: project manager:  we decided our remote ,  we want it to be a universal remote  that everyone would want . I'll hand it off to you and  Does anyone do you wanna go first ? marketing: Sure . Well , this is my report , which is going to be based pretty much on a survey that I was sent . You want it to be on both screens , or just just yours ? marketing: No I want something else on mine . marketing: So is there no way I can give you the slideshow and project manager: I think oh give us the slideshow and something on your screen ? marketing: yeah .  so first of all , the method that I used was by doing some marketing research , industrial designer: marketing: by  doing research on some interviews that were conducted . And eighty percent of the users would be willing to spend more money if they could get a remote that would look fancy . So I think that earlier we were onto something when we were talking about having it be a modern cool look , I think that's definitely important . And if anyone could clarify what that means ? industrial designer: Just jus user interface: Is is it j just just marketing: Zap , does that just mean like changing the channel ? user interface: just using it industrial designer: yeah .  and fifty percent of the users say that they're only using ten percent of the buttons on their remote control .  the biggest user frustrations , as we said fifty percent of people find that their remotes are lost somewhere , and so I think a tracking device of some sort would be a good idea . They said it take thirty four percent said it takes too much time to learn how to use a new remote . The groups at the older they get it looks like the less willing they are to pay , so maybe we could discuss this and think and decide if we think it's worth investing in this . We definitely need to focus on a new modern appearance , since so many people seem to be concerned about the ugliness of their remote control .  we need to simplify the remote and reduce the number of buttons , get rid of the ones that don't seem to be serving much purpose . user interface: Having just listened to what Corinne just said , I'll draw on some of the things as well . marketing: user interface: And t s simplest approach that I came to is is to change , programme and operate an electronic device remotely .  that's an obvious thing to say , but it's not attached to the device that you want to control . But I think a universal remote control is actually quite a difficult object to design , and po possibly within maybe the budget that we do it ,  because you'd need to know all the spef specifications of a all the like electronic companies . I'm not sure have you ever come across a universal remote control yourself , but you have to i they're a nightmare to use . So I think it'd be better maybe to concentrate on maybe just a universal one for T_V_s .  or maybe just one that you could we could design and then different people , manufacturers could use it to set to their specifications , if if the aim is to get something that's unique in design . And the other one is engineer-centred where that's more  specified for the sort of the elaborate piece of equipment it's trying to control  which appeals more to the product that we want , and on what the have said and the market research and stuff probably looking at something that should be user-centred . Fewer buttons , simpler to use , and if ten percent  is hidden away if ten percent is what's used , maybe the other fifty percent , the buttons that are used very rarely like programming , they could be hidden maybe under some remote controls you might have come across have maybe a little flip thi thing where they're hidden away .  and finally ,   sort I've sort of covered that , our product I think should be user interface orientated .  Like I said to concentrate on T_V_ remote control , a universal remote might be too complex .  and as what it , the major findings market researchers have said , it's the image and the appearance that people di dislike . project manager: What was your last conclusion on that one ? Focus on  the i user interface: On something on the image of it . Gonna talk to you about the working design of the interiors basically which is what dictates the design the both the interface basically and the outer appearance because this is all the stuff that needs to go in there . So unfortunately the people who were supposed to do this little presentation for me obviously were too drunk to actually accomplish it , marketing: project manager: industrial designer: so  I'm going to do a lot of the stuff on the board . The way you normally normally do it is that you add a little device such as a lamp to the whole thing as well , so that you know that it's working basically . Now this , what we're talking about here , or what I think should be discussed are these two components mostly . Right ? These two are components that we have to use , and these are dictated by the whole function of the whole thing . Who knows ? Of course it's always a question whether these these components are in fact available cheap enough , developed enough . But that's like I s I suppose rather up to marketing , and not to project manager: So we could the the industrial designer: to the industrial design department . project manager: the more complex we make it of course , the more expensive industrial designer: Expensive it's gonna be get  . project manager: But people have said that they would well younger generations of people have said that they would pay more for a speech recognition remote . user interface: I think speech recognition was  one of those things where  they have to be really good for them to work . Well user interface: And you need to sort of take into light languages and then different dialects I suppose as well . project manager: I myself I find , when you , h when there's something like spee speech recognition . project manager: and you say one for this , and you find yours , like you said , saying the same thing over and over and over . marketing: project manager: So maybe if you're sitting on your couch with a bunch of people then you know , you user interface: And wou I don't know if would would you want to keep saying stuff if you were watching stuff . marketing: Another thing about these figures is ninety one percent of the youngest age groups said they'd do it , but probably a lot of them that's actually their parents money . Like I don't know if they would actually go out and purchase this themselves , a fifteen year old you know . user interface: I think As well it'd be j the gimmick factor for the younger people . user interface: But practically I don't think it's project manager: It's a , it's a gimmick factor that they like at first , and user interface: Yeah .  the remote's only gonna be for the television , which is good because we already decided y your your research showed that  not only is a universal remote more complicated , it's more cost , more costly .  but we do have to use the the company wants us to incorporate the corporate colour and our slogan , which is we put the fashion in electronics . And we could probably get away with black too but So those are the three  the three new requirements that that I was told we need to use .  from all all three of your  presentations , I think that we were on the right track a lot in our last meeting . project manager: But  it's probably , I would say , probably not worth the investment at this point in time . But if you don't put it back in , you press something like a little button on that , and that just sort of sends out a beep to find where it is or something . project manager: That'd be , that'd be good if we were going with our our ball . Or you know However , however you wanted to go about it , the holder could also be the charging unit . project manager: we still have the how to hold on to it industrial designer: You s you still W yeah . industrial designer: While you're watching , marketing: Rolls away industrial designer: it's gonna roll off . I guess our , I guess our main  main thing that we should focus on until then is probably deciding on a certain look , you know . Did you guys feel you have enough time in between our meetings to get everything done that you need to get done ? marketing: Not really . user interface: I'll yeah I'll have a look , try look at the actual appearance in the next break . user interface: I th I I do still think it needs to be something that is ultimately one-handed . On maybe a a rect on a rectangle but maybe not necessarily as boring , as plain as a rectangle . project manager:  Shall we maybe shoot for a a specific  target group ? That way we could l  if it were , if we were shooting for young guys then it's  a certain look to the remote . Or girls or older people ?  Would that you think that would help us find  a specific form ? That we would would wanna pick out ? user interface: D I don't know if that might cope with like the trend-watching . So  we know that the remote's gonna have to be we'll just say we've got a colour scheme for it . project manager: you know yellow it's nice and bright , with the buttons being grey or black . project manager: And our slogan pasted somewhere on it , on the the bottom marketing: project manager: or the user interface: Bottom perhaps project manager: you know . project manager: Maybe we could sketch a so basically all of our remotes all of our typical remotes now are just kind of a rectangular sort .  Hope everyone memorised that  user interface: You  it might be to look at sort of the the shape and trend of like things like mobile phones , and the shapes that the they've been going . user interface: They've gone from big brick block things , which is a remote control is , to sort of slinky small things .  user interface: marketing: project manager: But they are all , industrial designer: project manager: you know , mobile phones  they've kind of taken a turn to where they're really small . project manager: But then again you don't want you know like the first mobile phone that was this big marketing: project manager: and you had a handbag to carry it around in .  user interface: project manager: So we've got basically what remotes look like now is kind of what we're what we're stuck with . If you , if we want the remote to do other things like  or I guess the T_V_ to be able to change the tint and the colour and you know all those kind of things that are built into T_V_s , we just have that under one standard menu button where you go in , press the menu button , scroll up and down to select it . project manager: 'Kay so industrial designer: It's project manager:  industrial designer: Talk about maybe f look at that from the side , there maybe . industrial designer: You can even if we're coming from mice , we can even add a click function , where you , in order to verify the information you just press it down . industrial designer: Also when it comes to the ergonomics of the whole thing , if you wanna make it square for the looks of it , then maybe to make it more comfortable to hold the whole thing , you add a little bulge down here . And maybe you bring the buttons nearer to the or the imp more important buttons nearer to the to the side . Maybe the buttons could like  decrease in s the bigger ones you know they could actually be bigger in size than the ones that are less important , the smaller here . So you know you just sort of have your hand industrial designer:  well I was just thinking , this this of course causes user interface: Yeah . user interface: But  the older so project manager: Yeah is everyone who in here's right-handed , left-handed ? You guys all right-handed ? marketing: Right . project manager: I'm left-handed but I , so I can say that most things are designed for right-handed people . industrial designer: user interface: marketing: Maybe you could buy like a special left-handed version of the remote . user interface:  I'm just just thinking maybe if it was  circular  with the sort of that sort of the sort of early idea we had , with the way that was more like that , whereas this is just a one-handed thing that you sort of almost wrap round the thumb . Like your zap zapping device is just u channels up-down ,  volume , and on-off .  So for the next So for the next  before the next meeting w  sh shall we work on you're watching trends to see what what kind of new information we've got going on . project manager: Manuel you're going to work on the components for for what we're gonna use . project manager: Let's go with our our  rounded kind of fit in your hand let's explore  the the  possibility of having the two-piece . So one for the the quick zapping  and possibly one you know with just that rounded part that fits into your hand . project manager: And Ryan you work on  how how well they'll work with the us with the user . Or I guess we'll be taking lunch shortly and then then in about half an hour after that we'll probably have another meeting 