Hi everybody and welcome to our kick-off meeting  for our new product that we're gonna be designing . industrial designer: project manager: Yeah , or how about I just click ? Okay , here is our agenda for this meeting .  tool training , we're going to , I guess , figure out what to do on this project with our individual roles .  we're gonna make a project plan and then have some time for discussion and close up the meeting . We're gonna make a new remote control that's  original , trendy and also user-friendly . And how we are going to do it is each of us is going to  We're gonna have discuss the functional design first , how is it gonna be used , what's the actual goal here , it has to operate T_V_ , blah blah blah . And then the detailed design , just more in-depth , get the actual schematics of the remote . And the whiteboard thing , do you guys wanna give that a try even though the ink wasn't working or do you wanna do it on here . industrial designer: I think we should forgo the whiteboard since we can't actually see what we're writing . user interface: project manager:  right now so we're all gonna draw our favourite animal and then sum up our favourite characteristics of that animal . industrial designer: project manager: marketing: industrial designer: I draw like I'm in grade five . user interface: marketing: It's pretty cool , and  they've got a pretty good habitat and they are pretty sometimes , sometimes vicious but that's okay . industrial designer: I love cats because they're independent ,  they pretty much know what they want , they get it , they move on . project manager: I had a roommate who was  allergic , but if she was around my cat forever she became used to it , you know , marketing: Yeah , yeah , if you're around them for a long period of time project manager: it's weird . project manager: Why a badger ? user interface:  I dunno , they're grumpy and nocturnal and marketing: industrial designer: Are you trying to suggest something ? project manager: user interface: Well , a little bit like the Yes . project manager: No , no , no , it ends up looking like some kind of a dinosaur , but whatever . I don't know even much about giraffes , but I just love the way they look . marketing: You don't really have to , if you like 'em project manager: Yeah , but you can appreciate the way they look . user interface: project manager:  the selling price for our remote is going to be twenty-five Euro , and our profit aim is fifty million Euro . We're going to make this an international product marketed in the States , in Europe , in Asia . Expe our experiences with remote controls  , our first ideas about this new remote , anything that you can bring to the table for this project . You wanna start us off ? Anybody have anything to offer ? user interface: industrial designer: Well , we wanna make a multifunctional remote , right ? project manager: Right . user interface: And everything being Wait , we have what , sound system , T_V_ , D_V_D_ , V_H_S_ ,  TiVo ? marketing: Right . user interface: if po if we're gonna do it marketing: It needs to be compatible 'cause universal remote controls are never universal . Esp e especially if you buy a a not big product , D_V_D_ player , say , usually it doesn't work if it's not one of the user interface: Or if it's not like a Sony , if it's like a I don't know . industrial designer: So we'll have to figure it how to cover all the different variances in signals . marketing: And what we need an insanely good instruction booklet , because you always have to reconfigure all your contraptions to go with the remote anyways . 'Kay , and  another thing that I think is important is the d the design of the product , how it feels in your hand . If it's just flat and kind of boring th those don't Nobody wants to buy those any more . industrial designer: What about something with the curvature like that matches the curvature of a hand ? project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: What kinda battery would we want to use ? Because battery changing is usually user interface: D Double A_ . project manager: Do some of them use triple A_s though ? marketing: Yeah some use triple A_s . user interface: Some but marketing: So double or triple ? user interface: Yeah , I guess then it's If we need to do triple A_ we can , but most people usually have double A_s around . project manager: Here we can marketing: Yeah , if we want it to be more thin , then we'd probably wanna go with a triple A_ . But industrial designer: Can you with a small lithium battery ? project manager: it's okay , we don't have to decide about it now , just as long as we remember battery type and size is important .  the I_D_ , which is who ? Okay , you're going to think about the working design . project manager: making sure it does everything that we need the remote to do , the functionality of it , operating all those different things . project manager: And you're gonna get more specific instructions emailed to you in just a little while 