 we'll just get started with everyone kind of letting each other know who they are and what you're doing , what your what your role is  . I am Corinne Whiting and I will be the Marketing Expert and in each of the three phases I will have a different role . In the function design phase I will be talking about user requirement specification , and this means what needs and desires are to be fulfilled , and I'll be doing research to figure this out . In the conceptual design phase I will be dealing with trend watching and I'll be doing marketing research on the web . And then finally in the  detailed design phase I will be doing product evaluation and so I will be collecting the requirements and ranking all the requirements to see how we did . And the detailed design  sort of like the user interface design , what they might be looking for ,  things like fashions , what makes wha how we're gonna make it special . In the functional design phase I'm I'll be dealing mostly with the requirements ,  we'll discuss what the prog what functions the the product has to fulfil and so and so on . industrial designer: And  the detailed design in the detailed design I'll be concerned with the look and feel of the product itself ,  so we're pretty much working together obviously on the design front here .  so we've got our opening , our our agenda is the opening ,  acquaintance which we've kinda done .  of course we're a not only a electronics company but a fashion  conscious electronics company , so we want it to be trendy  and we want it to be easy to use .  we've got the functional design , conceptual design and detailed design  which basically is is the three of you  .  do we have  any ideas of of maybe d let's just throw out some ideas of what kind of remote control we want to have , and then we can go into how we're gonna design it and and how we're gonna do the detailing on it . project manager: So we want it to be  a T_V_ remote or I  do we want it to to do other things besides just be a a television remote ? user interface: Oh right . But , you know , they all sorta have the same role changing channels , volumes and then programming . user interface: I think they all work on the same prin principle as well sorta like I don't actually know . But is it just infra-red ? Is that standard ? project manager: I I think yeah , yeah , r universal remote . user interface: So if there's a g a way of finding it quite easily , I thought that'd be quite good quite a good feature . Ch project manager: So we should we should set our remote control up to where it has a  marketing: Like a tracking device ? project manager: like a tracking device or or like a a user interface: Oh you can get those key well you could whistle or make a noise project manager: It makes a noise , user interface: and it'd beep . project manager: there's a button on the T_V_ that you press industrial designer:  . industrial designer: So user interface: Generally , all remotes are sort of quite similar in their appearance . user interface: I thought maybe , because people always tend to throw a remote control about the place to one another if it was in a ball , project manager: 'Kay . industrial designer: Well there are of course certain restrictions , you can't have it be any form and fulfil all functions at the same time , user interface: Yeah .  however  one question is how stable is that thing supposed to be , that refers to the material , pretty much  . industrial designer: How sturdy is it gonna be ? Do we want it to last longer or rather have people whatever , have to buy one every half a year ? project manager: Okay so yeah , so we want it to be sturdy , user interface: Yeah . project manager: we want it to to hold up to somebody's child , you know , throwing it across the room or , as you said , people kinda throw it , so ball-shaped ,  you know , if it were ball-shaped maybe , user interface: Yeah . project manager: then it user interface: It could be cased on the outside and t everything could be inside .  What else it what else do we want it to to do ? So we want it to be universal . It's something that we're supposed to sell for about twenty five Euros  and you know , goals for profits are I think somewhere around  fifty million Euros , what they wanna make on it , so . Also since we're partners of the International Remote Control Association , maybe we wanna make it something that would globally appeal . project manager: So marketing , you know , how maybe  marketing , you could s find out what is the most universally  appealing remote control out there . industrial designer: marketing: And maybe as far as design goes , maybe we could have different ones for different target audiences , project manager: 'Kay . project manager:  Do you guys have any ideas for what it should look like ? Maybe we could draw it up on the on the board over there . Some ideas ? We want it to be a b a ball , user interface: I'd I could draw sorta the ball idea . project manager: you know , we'll draw up we'll draw up the ball and maybe th  where the buttons are located . user interface: My original idea was just simply sort of a sphere , where maybe you this is where it's connected together , and then when you open it out , it could fol it could be maybe flip , like a flip phone , and then when you fold it out the middle Maybe a hinge that'll have to be the strongest part of it . If that if we did use a hinge , or if it was just two parts , industrial designer: user interface: and then you'd have just sorta you you you know , your buttons . Thing is inside I think , sometimes remotes have too many buttons , so maybe as simple as possible ,  as few buttons inside as possible . Just something maybe if you ha if it had like if some kind of like light or something or lights around it . It's looking a bit like something out of Star Wars at the moment though , to be fair . industrial designer: user interface: That was that was a sorta simple idea I had project manager: -huh . One problem you'd get with this design is  the ball is a nice idea because of it's stability really , user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: but of course , since it's a ball , it'll roll , so we'd have to have it flat on one side at least , down here somewhere , user interface: Yeah . The idea it didn't have to necessarily be f a hinge , industrial designer: That's that's interesting of course , user interface: that was just one idea though . marketing: project manager: How would we go about  making you know getting rid of our weak points ? What  would we just have a flat spot on the bottom of the ball ? user interface: marketing: project manager: Not to put you on the spot , industrial designer: E No no , project manager: but industrial designer:   . project manager: What did you say your title was again ? industrial designer: N n marketing: project manager: You're the the Industrial Designer . industrial designer: I'm your Industrial Designer , marketing: industrial designer: so i b well , project manager: industrial designer: the point is that well maybe I dunno . industrial designer: As as stable as it is , there must be a compromise between  stability and design here , so . I can't think of anything other than a long rectangle for remote , project manager: Yeah . user interface: maybe small , sort of fatter ones , but there's nothing being done sort of out of left field , yeah . project manager: It's not new , it's not innovative , it's you know , everybody does long remote because it's easy , user interface: Yeah . marketing: My idea was just to have it be kind of like a keyboard type shape , you know , like video games user interface: Yeah . user interface:  maybe design something , that's sort of like suppose not everybody's everybody's hand's the same , but something that would maybe fit in the hand easier . Because even I suppose even with the ball user interface: It still might be hard to project manager: it's user interface: it still not the ho easiest thing to hold , yeah . project manager: But then again , people like to use one hand to flip and one hand to hold their soda , so maybe maybe we user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: Well with the one-handed design you also have the the problem of the size w 'cause you know from cell phones , they can be too small . industrial designer: if it's small it probably looks better , but may not be th as functional . So for that there's project manager: Okay , so industrial designer: So project manager: unfortunately we've got about five minutes here to come up with our  remote control idea and start rolling with it . What if we had what if we had not only  say we went with the ball the ball function  , but maybe we give it sort of grips along the side s  to make it easier to hold on to . But if we're gonna make it flat on the bottom , then that eliminates our ball anyways . So if it were flat on the bottom and then had the sorta grips on the side here I guess ,  and then flat  And then we have the problem with the hinge . So if we're flat on the bottom , it's not gonna roll away , it'll stay where we want . industrial designer: The question is also , I dunno , d do you really always want to open that thing when you have to use it ? project manager: that's true . industrial designer: It's probably going to lie around opened all the time anyway , so I don't know if a lid is a good idea . From stabil stability point of view  it certainly is , but also you have to face it and take into account the more of these things break by accident ,  the more we sell . We just have a ball user interface: But then maybe to go back to the to th s something along those things then . What if we flipped it around here , so that it were  Sorry , that doesn't look anything like what you had there . project manager: Course then it's it's like the rectangular again , only with a couple of jutting out points . industrial designer: Question is what makes those game pads functional ? W I think that's pretty much the form for full hand . project manager: Yeah , industrial designer: You know , all project manager: because it doesn't have a cord , like joysticks do . industrial designer: that dif batteries right , and Batteries go weak as well , so  after a while you have to point it towards the  towards the equipment you wanna control with it , right ? So , have to m show which is the front , which is the back . project manager: Is it possible to have it to where it would work with a like a sensor on either side ? So that either way you're pointing it it would work .  industrial designer:  of course it'll be evident after a while or if you look at it , it'll it'll be evident which way around to point it , since you have the the numbers and the and the the buttons and stuff , project manager: True . industrial designer: but  it's rather about an instinctual thing , user interface: Put it industrial designer: like you just grab it , you don't have to s look at it , you know , which way around to point it . user interface: Even if you designed it in some in a way that you know , isn't a rectangle , but still pointed in a direction that had definite points . user interface: and there's your s you kn you know which way you're gonna pointing it . project manager: Okay , well , just to finish up , should we s go with this plan , start making some Are good ideas , what are not . user interface: Does it say what does it say for n industrial designer: Obviously user interface: it says on there what we need to do for the next meeting , I think 