user interface: project manager: and  , I'll be taking minutes on this one , and  Being hooked up to the PowerPoint for this meeting isn't very necessary for  myself , because it'll be more about  , what you guys are bringing to the meeting today . 'Cause I was too busy carried away doing my own thing , marketing: industrial designer: which is not obviously not a very good part of a team-working thing . industrial designer: so I was looking at how we're going to go about the working design , and what we actually need to do , and what the remote control needs to do . And it needs to  allow a person to have a portable desi device , so they can control the television from wherever they are .  , from  , on a functional side of things , we found out that wh from our previous meeting , we decided that there're certain points that will make our product unique . And we could use illuminated buttons , which we are all familiar with when we're using a mobile phone , or  something fam familiar . Or we could use fluorescent materials which would just  take in the light during the day , and then as soon as they go off they would glow in the dark . So if we lost the  remote control , perhaps there could be a button on the television set itself , which you could press , and then an alarm from the handset would sound where it was , hopefully in the room .  , another thing I think we d missed out on on the last meeting was the fact that we should consider the environmental impact of our design .  , from previous researches I've carried out on other projects ,  we've learnt about smart materials where   specific alloys of metals have a shape memory . user interface: marketing: industrial designer: So they can be heated and  and cooled , and they change the shape of  the metal . So , for example , a screw that's holding something together could expand and it would force all the components apart . So  , the benefits of this for our product would be that when it came to the end of its product life , if it was heated ,  everything would spring apart . So , all the  individual components could be easily separated , and then some could be reused , some could be recycled , and I think that would be very important for products now . Especially 'cause there's much  responsibility for all the  companies who are coming up with like new designs . 'Cause all , we all know that our resources are being limited , and we have to be very environmentally conscious . project manager: So that , someone could have this product for as long as they felt that they wanted it , and then once they contribute it , then that company can break down the part , the parts better ? industrial designer:  And then Yeah . Yeah they would ,  you would make the , the product as you normally would , apart from the , the bits that hold it all together would be made out of this shape-memory alloy .  , the user would return the p product to the company , 'cause it's the product's responsibility to get rid of what they've made .  , and then the company could then just use , make use of this shape-memory alloys to split up the components , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: and then either reuse some bits , and other bits which are obviously gonna wear out with time , or not usable , they might be like be able to put into scrap metal . Something like the case , if it's scratched or something , you would want to reuse it , but you might be able to melt it down and reuse it again somewhere else . Would we be the company that would break down these , or  metals ? Or would we contribute to another group ? industrial designer: You could we could probably empl em employ a , a side company or something to do that for us . industrial designer: but project manager: One thing we have to consider is our  one hundred percent  turnover goal that we have for our financial sector . project manager: so we'll have to investigate how much that will cost us , cost the company , industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: Well I the fact of the shape-memory alloys is that they , they don't need to be manually de  deconstructed . industrial designer: So I suppose it does need like high contact , yeah , you know high  quality machinery , and very specific machinery , but project manager: Alright . project manager: I'm sorry , could you industrial designer: There we go project manager: Those were  industrial designer: .  , an' yeah , well how the infrared will actually be sent through the chip to be received by the chip on the television set itself . industrial designer: Okay ? So , now is it F_ eight again to escape ? Or escape ? There we go . Can you see ? marketing: Oh , user interface: Do you think Is it  , function eight yeah ? project manager: Yeah .  , in this case it's the function of the remote control , which is to send messages to the television , television set . By taking inspiration from other similar designs , we'll try and come up with an original trendy remote control , which is sellable international .  , multifunctional controls can be difficult to use , as the multitude of buttons can be confusing . A single function remote control is simpler to use , but it means you have to have other remote controls for your other entertainment devices . user interface: I think that a single function remote control would be preferable , because it's easier to use .  , it will make an original design more obtainable , as we have less functional necessities to include in the design . And probably more sellable just because it's more compatible with a r a wider range of devices . Does anyone have any questions ? marketing: So as far as we know , a single function television remote control is us usable internationally ? user interface: Well , it's just that , when we're creating it , we're , we have to make it  compatible with different brands of devices . user interface: And it would be easier to make it compatible with just different brands of television devices rather than other ent , marketing: D_V_D_s and V_C_R_ ? user interface: yeah , project manager: Right . project manager: Does everyone agree with this ? Does anyone object and , and find the multifunctional might be a better way to go ? industrial designer: I was just wondering about the , what , what Genevieve said before , about having like some hidden controls like having the outer casing . And that would probably , I d , well well what you said before about it being a more profitable simplistic design . Do you think ? marketing: Yeah , I think I agree with the single design thing for now , because we're trying to do so much , that if we're trying to make a unique , user-friendly , dadada , and it's also multi also multifunctional , we're gonna go over budget for one thing . project manager: Alright , well , marketing: project manager: are you ready for your presentation Genevieve ? marketing: Yes I am . Except you're not hooked up to the marketing: Oh , user interface: marketing: I'm not hooked up , but other than that , completely ready .  , if you all remember from the email we got before our very first  kick-off meeting , with the coffee machine ? The functional requirements of that was to produce hot coffee quickly .  , I've done some marketing research , a lot of interviews with remote control users , and some internet research . project manager: I'm sorry , what was that last thing that you just said ? marketing: we should be looking towards trends in both clothing and interior design . marketing: Any trends that are going on in , in the public , even media , industrial designer:  . marketing: you know who's famous , what T_V_ shows are being watched , industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: marketing: the other twenty five percent didn't specify if they love them or found them , you know , neutral . project manager: I'm sorry , that eighty percent of users would spend more money when a remote control would look fancy . You mean that they would spend more money on a fancy-looking remote control ? marketing: Yeah , they're willing , they're willing to spend money on a remote control with personality . marketing: As opposed to your basic , you know , oval black , all same size button remote control . project manager: And another thing with  lots of surfing , we'd probably have to work on something that could be  a lot more durable , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: because I find with  channel-changers that , a lot of the numbers get rubbed down if they're printed on the button . marketing: And actually to go with that , I'm gonna give you some statistics on the  relevancy of the buttons , how much they're used .  , so obviously when commercials come on they're changing it , so as you said we want a durable button that's not gonna run down . user interface: It has T_V_ has like information , it has information on holidays , the news , entertainment . marketing: So like a running banner , underneath project manager: No it's a button that you press , and then you , like a menu pops up . industrial designer: It's like user interface: And you have page numbers like for the menu , and you press the page numbers with your remote , and it , it'll come up . industrial designer: Yeah , it's just information that  , like television timetables , what's on , what's on now , what's on next , on every channel , and marketing: Right . Well I guess I'm not with it , because I wasn't But it's , it's being used fourteen times an hour . So it looks like something that we're gonna want to do some research on and include on our remote control . You know if you get a new T_V_ set , you tune in all the channels , industrial designer: To get the right reception and picture , I suppose . marketing: Is that what it is ? People with arthritis and such ? project manager: That's rather sad . industrial designer: user interface: industrial designer: marketing: maybe our industrial designer: Oh , I'm guessing that's what it is . marketing: But we'll have to also avoid , you know , buttons responding to the slightest touch as well . Ninety one point two percent said that they would pay extra money to have voice recogni voice recognition included on their remote control .  , and you can see that number decreases a bit with ol s Interestingly enough , twenty five to thirty five is the lowest amount . So I guess we're gonna have to figure out what age group we're , we're targeting , and if and if voice recognition is something we wanna look into . project manager: I agree with  if we're targeting young adults then it would be something we should look into . project manager: and especially if we are  trying to be trendy , go with fashions , things like that . project manager: ages like from thirty five to sixty five which show lower numbers probably won't be as concerned . I don't know if it'd be , if we'd still have a remote , or if you're talking to your television and saying change channel . marketing: So it m it may be too complicated for us , but it's something to keep in mind anyway . industrial designer: And if there was conversation in the room at the same time , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: although in theory it doesn't tend to be when you're watching television , project manager: industrial designer: but could be very difficult to get the specific  design . project manager: We need to decide if that is our  intention is , is a simplistic design . project manager: because if , if it is then I think voice ,  voice-activated marketing: It looks like project manager: Yeah , and that would sort of negate the whole remote control thing , marketing: project manager: because if people can activate the television with their voice then they won't be using a , they won't be talking into a remote , I'm sure .  an L_C_D_ screen though might be something that , you know , you can shift through pages kind of li the way this PowerPoint is working . industrial designer: What , what would appear on the screen ? project manager: I have no idea still . marketing: now that's , I , I dunno exactly what exactly we'd put on there . Could it it It would be good if it had the actual programme that was on , and what was next . But that would probably be industrial designer: Like linked in with the teletext , user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: or sort of like an teletext at your fingers , without having to access that through the television . user interface: marketing: Well I guess that's something we can all take back to our respective research . Every remote control looks the same , so  in my opinion it should be , user-friendly and unique . user interface: marketing: So if we're , if we're aiming to make this an international university , universally accepted product industrial designer:  .  if we wanted to concentrate on fifteen to twenty five years olds , we could go for the fancy stuff . But if we wanna make fifty million , and and have everyone want this remote control , we should maybe stick to the basics . user interface: And we should keep in mind that fifteen to twenty five year olds might not have twenty five Euros to spend on a remote control . Like their priorities might not be a fancy remote control , when they're just starting out marketing: you know , a sixteen year old boy would say , yeah I'd pay extra for voice recognition , until they realise that's three months allowance . marketing: so I I think , I think the older generations we should be catering to a bit more . And if one of the largest , or most complained about thing is that it takes so long to get to know how to use a remote control , user interface: Twenties . project manager: I'm sure that something like an L_C_D_ screen or remote control would be just furthering that problem . Before we go into  more discussion on we want this design to look like , I've received some information from the management that will affect some of our decisions .  , for one thing , because Having controls with D_V_D_ , V_C_R_ , that sort of thing , would really complicate the design of the remote control .  , we've decided not to include them and make it a specific , just a specific television  function . Which is good as , as we've sort of decided that we would like to go with that anyway . Another thing that might  affect other decisions is that  the management feels that teletext is outdated , because more people are using the internet now . industrial designer: Were they , was the management suggesting use of the internet rather than teletext , or just avoiding both altogether ? project manager: well ,  we don't have the resources or or possibility of using the internet with the remote control , industrial designer: Yeah . This is for the design , the design of the product is that  we wanna create ,  more of a sense that people know that this is from our company . So , all the remote controls must have our  We'll incorporate our logo and colour in in some way . project manager: So , perhaps  our logo on the bottom , or wherever you feel like it would look good . project manager: it doesn't have to be the colour of our  of our company industrial designer: Just project manager: but , another thing is that ,  industrial designer: project manager: we need to , we probably would have to have that colour and , and logo decided upon .  , I'm assuming that we already have one , but for the purposes of this meeting I , I wasn't offered a , like a type of logo or colour , so if that could be  somewhere on the design so that we can be recognisable .  , so , now we need to discuss ,  and come to a decision on our remote control functions , of , of how this is going to be . industrial designer: marketing: Okay , so I Are we going to write off the L_C_D_ option ? industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: I think it would be annoying though if I don't use teletext that much , but if it was on your T_V_ , you'd want to be able to use it , if project manager: Yeah , but another thing is that if we're reaching an international crowd , I know for one that in North America there is no such thing as teletext , so it'd be really superfluous . project manager: Do you know if anywhere else has it ? industrial designer: I don't know . industrial designer: But if Was it a management decision that we're having project manager: It was a management decision , industrial designer: Okay . project manager: so it's , it's pretty much out of our hands at this point . industrial designer: Minimal marketing: And the What was the word they used ? F findability is important . project manager: 'Cause I'm sure that could be inex inexpensive because we could use the same kind of infrared user interface: Yeah . user interface: Would you be able to , put the little device anywhere ? 'Cause  isn't our remote control for all T_V_s , so industrial designer: If user interface: you'd ha industrial designer: Do you mean the the link between the user interface: Yeah , with the button that you pressed . user interface: C 'cause then it would only be a applicable to one T_V_ set , so it would need to be something that you could stick somewhere , or something . project manager: Yeah , it would have t industrial designer: Maybe something adhesive that you could like stick onto the back of any set that would be  yeah not very obtrusive . Then it wouldn't , it probably wouldn't be able to use It would be able to use the same reception on the remote c control I guess , but the actual device would have to have its own infrared signaller . user interface: Would it need a battery then ? project manager: Maybe ,  industrial designer: Pr probably . industrial designer: Unless it could be project manager: That's your department you'll have to sort that out .  , unless some way , it could have some universal connection to like the socket , the same socket that the T_V_'s supplied from . project manager: Yeah , you'll have to industrial designer: So , more research into that one . project manager: Yeah , you'll have to investi Do some research on that , user interface: industrial designer: Yeah .  , alright , and I'm sure that , the glow-in-the-dark , fluorescent , whatever , system ,  is a go ahead . Is everyone interested in that ? industrial designer: Y marketing: On the buttons ? user interface: I I like the light up suggestion . user interface: 'Cause you know the way fluorescent lights lose their brightness after certain time , so industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: it doesn't user interface: I would go for marketing: It could it could be a tactile thing as well .  right , if w if we're minimising buttons , we might be able to make them actually larger . industrial designer: Like a raised marketing: and I don't know what we could do for , for channels . S user interface: Well just the numbers could be embossed , couldn't it ? Like raised . user interface: Just little arrows , that you could feel , maybe ? industrial designer: Yeah marketing: Yeah . marketing: I just thought that it , it might be sucking more battery power , if there , if it is a light up . project manager: But  industrial designer: And also y ,  Heather you mentioned before ,  like how it should be accessible to everybody . industrial designer: So like you say tactile might be better , because it'd be more available to everybody . Could we somehow We could , may , possibly , sorry , incorporate them both so that the buttons could maybe be in the shape of the numbers themselves and be made out of some glow-in-the-dark material . project manager: 'Cause I d I don't think that glow-in-the-dark material , like the actual soft plastic , costs that much more than other colours . marketing: I guess the other option , referring to the battery thing is , you know how cellphones will t light up for fifteen seconds or something , when you're s and then it goes , industrial designer: Yeah . I know , I'm thinking of mostly when you're watching a movie you turn all the lights off right . marketing: And you don't want to turn on the lights , to turn it down , because there's suddenly an explosion , and it's gonna wake up the baby . industrial designer: I project manager: for the meeting , but I think we should discuss this light subject a little bit more before we close . What were you talking about with the lighting up buttons ? marketing: Oh , just if it was kinda the same way that a cell You know how a cellphone will light up for about ten , fifteen seconds when you touch a button , after having not touched it for a while . marketing: if instead of a constant light up on the , on the remote control , if it lights up for ten seconds when it's touched again . marketing: Yeah , and you , you touch it and it just kind of lights up a bit , and it gives a faint glow . industrial designer: So , self-timed marketing: So if you have all the lights off in your living room , you'll , you'll temporarily see it . project manager: So , do you think that we should do the lighting up thing , and the glow-in-the-dark thing , and the shape of the numbers ? Do we have to kind of decide what we're gonna do with this . And as you're saying like numbers can wear off if they're just sort of like painted on , you know printed . And it could , if it's that softer rubber material it'll be , maybe , better for people with  els no industrial designer: durable . project manager: what's it called , R_S_I_ , what was it that we were talking about ? industrial designer: Oh yeah .  , did we want to go for the glow-in-the-dark look ? industrial designer: project manager: Or did we want to go for the lighting up instantly ? user interface: If project manager: Like should we do both ? Or we can have one or the other ? Because it might , for , for our design purposes , the lighting up thing might be better because glow-in-the-dark material has a funny kinda colour . industrial designer: Yeah , and we could marketing: whereas we're trying to be trendy and fashionable . industrial designer: Yeah there are now like loads , or a huge range of different colours that it could light up in as well , marketing: So industrial designer: which could like link in with the company colours . industrial designer: or like we've just limited t with the , just ordinary phosphorescent so project manager: Right . user interface: I was thinking though , if it was glow-in-the-dark , you could put the  Real Reaction symbol as glow-in-the-dark , and then it would be constantly advertised . And do you have anything marketing: What  project manager: Do you have anything to say ? marketing: Oh sorry . So I I dunno if there's something that diff , you know like five different face plates . I dunno if this will start making it more complicated , but it could increase the popularity of the , of the remote . Interchangeable thing ? marketing: Yeah , project manager: Like an iPod or something ? user interface: That would be good . marketing: And I dunno if we'd want to go with like T_V_ show themes or something . user interface: Yeah , and then that would be  more profitable like as a sideline to the remote as well . You could start out with three , and if , if we hit it big then we can add some on . industrial designer: als project manager: You'd just get one mould , user interface: No . industrial designer: Interchan And also possible  , we could gain out of that by advertising certain T_V_ shows , or project manager: Yeah . project manager: So , if it takes off then we'll , we'll , we'll try that out . project manager: Do we need to reach a decision on that right now ? industrial designer: I've project manager: Because we need to investigate the financial implications . Is it industrial designer: Let's project manager: Does it need to be  decided on now ? Or should we industrial designer: I think we could probably leave that 'til later on , then 