I have a  a spreadsheet where we can calculate  our prices for every aspect of of what we've made , given our options . And we have the company logo here and this will be the infrared here industrial designer: The L_E_D_ . user interface: and this'll be the power point , the on off button kind project manager: Oh . marketing: What was the where's the L_E_D_ ? user interface: It's in the middle of one of the little R_s . user interface: So you don't have to Oh that was a mistake , wasn't it ? project manager: Okay . user interface: And this is just if you've got like eleven or twelve or thirt the plus . industrial designer: So one plus one would be eleven , user interface: You can go one , three or something . You press a plus button ? user interface: You press that first and then you go one three yeah . user interface: Well we just thought , we have all the numbers here , so we wanted something representative of numbers larger than ten and project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: Yeah because if you on your average  remote , if you press one twice you just go to  or  say you wanted channel twelve , you press one , and then you go to channel one , and then two then you'd just go to channel two , instead of twelve . industrial designer: So if you did like one plus two you could go to channel twelve , or two plus two is channel twenty two . project manager: But Would you have to go zero plus one if you wanted to go to channel one or two ? user interface: No no , th all that's why we have all these numbers . project manager: Yeah I know , but if if I wanna go to say number like sixty five , channel sixty five , if I press the six it'll go to channel six , and then I'll press the plus , and then it'll go to six and then put the five and it'll go to sixty five ? marketing: Sixty . user interface: I I well it doesn't we haven't really s I would've thought you pressed the plus first and then the six five , marketing: user interface: but she says plus press which industrial designer: Well I don't mind , we can further define that . user interface: what do you think is simpler ? project manager: I th  user interface: It's a industrial designer: I wouldn't have thought it'd be a problem that it went to channel six first , in like on the way to channel sixty five . If you don't put it marketing: So as long as you hit them dada industrial designer: Yeah . So industrial designer:  marketing: Was there so on the top there is volume and industrial designer: And channel , user interface: A channel . industrial designer: which is so you could just go like that without thinking about it , like marketing: Channel up volume up . user interface: Just so we can flick project manager: Right , where  where's the power button ? marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: because we thought that's kind of a more natural movement than just going like that with your thumb . industrial designer: But yeah , no  it's a different movement marketing: industrial designer: so yeah . industrial designer:  and the feel of it , we've made this out of Play Doh , which is representing the , you know , the rubber , and the spongy rubberness . industrial designer:  'cause it was said before in the material specification that this the this anti-R_S_I_  material is often used in stress balls so this has got a you know a bit of give to it , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: How it fits in the palm of your hand ? marketing: project manager: My goodness . industrial designer: O Okay , as for the colours , we were presented with  a limited range of colours for this prototype . industrial designer: But we're thinking that , seeing as we're having it in interchangeable casing anyway , that this is not necessarily a representation of the true colours that we would necessarily use .  and we're thinking to carry-on with the fruit and vegetable theme , the colour  combination just could just be named after different fruit , like banana could be black and yellow , watermelon red and green , project manager: Oh right . industrial designer: or vanilla might be the most popular if it just  blends in user interface: 'Cause it'd be quite subtle and industrial designer: more settled cream instead of the others are all a bit garish . industrial designer: Banana's more representative of our colour scheme , like the company the yellow and black . user interface: marketing: project manager: industrial designer:  watermelon , you know , m probably appealing to the project manager: Kinda Christmas , you know . industrial designer: Apple green , brown , more kinda trendy , you know , khaki project manager: Yeah . user interface: The pomegranate's kinda girly and funky kind of , project manager: Cool . user interface: and then the vanilla's more for the more sophisticated customer who just wants something that fits in with all decor .  yeah we thought of the components it was definitely  a focus of ergonomics and just a single ha handheld device ,  you don't need to use both hands , one hand to hold this and type in with the other , you can just use your thumb . industrial designer: as we said the rubber's probably used for comfort and anti-R_S_I_ and that's about it . And so now that we've we have a prototype ,  we need to go over the finances and seeing if this prototype matches  what our budget can handle . marketing: You want the project manager: Do you need to do a presentation first ? marketing: I don't know what order it goes in . industrial designer:  go project manager: What time is it anyw industrial designer: project manager: Oh yeah sorry you're right . marketing: Okay now I think for this one I could Would you guys prefer use the whiteboard or mayb maybe I'll just do it on right on the screen where you can see it .  , we're gonna be doing an evaluation report together based on the protoptype that we've just seen .  and looking looking back at my notes from our both our conceptual and our functional meetings ,  I made a list of what our original requirements and goals were , back to our kick-off meeting this morning .  , and we'll evaluate as to whether we've s done what we set out to do .  and we're gonna do it on a one to seven scale where one is true and seven is false . I can't change it so I'm g I'm gonna ask you to push it down once .  th the colours we were given for making the prototype aren't the colours that I think we would've necessarily chosen . industrial designer: It's not the kind of ooh  at all sleek project manager: Oh you were only given red and black ? industrial designer: red , black and yellow , and orange . user interface: Yeah so industrial designer:  user interface: not very sleek and we don't wanna go for black because most remote controls are black or grey . industrial designer: But if you can imagine that in like a s just a maybe  a kind of pale metallic-y finish or something user interface: Yeah . industrial designer:  diff if you can visualise this in nice colours I think it would look quite fancy . marketing: It's a two ? industrial designer: For the marketing: Okay , user interface: Fanciness . Okay so question number two was is it techn technologically innovative ? So I know we have the kinetic energy which is very innovative . industrial designer: The L_E_D_ use isn't particularly innovative marketing: Isn't industrial designer: and we don't have any scroll buttons , it's all pushbuttons , user interface:  . industrial designer: there's no L_C_D_ control , so if we're thinking about the rest of the market , it's sort of probably halfway . And I think  it it's tough to say because we were we didn't want it to be any more innovative than this , because then that would've defeated the purpose . project manager: Th marketing: there'll be s we have to work out the  number the plus system . user interface: But the industrial designer: Not in user interface: Remember the management said that it it had to be prominent . What where's it gonna sit in your living room ? Is it not gonna fall off the arm of the sofa ? project manager: Maybe if the bottom was just sort of flat , and then the rest is like marketing: Yeah the bottom could be like ch chopped a bit . marketing: Maybe , it could it could be on the bottom , so you wouldn't loo like if it's flat here , so it sits up . So , is this a good-looking remote ? Would we wanna show it off to our friends ? user interface: Three . project manager: I think , it was another colour and it was like I think it'd look okay . marketing: Yeah ? industrial designer: I would definitely go for that rather than like your average plain old remote like that , marketing:  I gue yeah , it's personal taste , but user interface: Yeah . What's  will people be willing to spend twenty five Euros on this product ? Remember that eighty percent of users were willing to spend more money when a remote control looked fancy . user interface: I think we have to market it in the right way , that  to say that it is simplistic . user interface: So people don't just see it and think , this is so simplistic , I don't want to spend twenty five Euros . industrial designer: And the kinetic energy , shaker-style-y , whoo , user interface: And the kinetic energy part . You're marketing: No , I guess , I don't know much about the remote control industry , how much your average sells for , user interface: use the zero . marketing: but I know I am , aren't I ? user interface: I think they're about ten po ten pound , aren't they ? About ten pounds . marketing: So yeah I think with a good marketing scheme  and the personalisation options , it'll user interface: project manager: Yeah . Can someone read it out ? industrial designer: Does this prototype match the operating behaviour of the average user . industrial designer: Because marketing: we said industrial designer: yeah , because the most accessible buttons are the volume and the and the channel-changing . user interface:  marketing: Yeah I guess the I think the key word there is average , 'cause there were some people that used the  video input and sound and stuff . C Heather could you push it down ? Will this remote control be easy to find when lost ? Remember that fifty percent of users lose their remote regularly . marketing: Now is there the is the alarm system still was it implemented ? user interface: Yeah the bu when you press the alarm system , the lights behind the and it'll vibra industrial designer: It Yeah marketing: industrial designer: l lights on and , or flash as well . But  it's not obviously obvious from the outside that that's gonna happen 'cause you can't s particularly see an alarm . If you user interface: But both marketing: project manager: You press the button it makes a noise right ? marketing: It turns into a duck and starts quacking . user interface: I'd be tempted to industrial designer: Well the thing is , if it was had an alarm system , marketing:  industrial designer: when it when it lights up as we  it could light up when the alarm went . user interface: It would have to be in the market project manager: I though w it was gonna make a noise . user interface: marketing: We can give it a one , because compared to every other remote ever m ever made , this one will be easier to find . Will it be easy to learn how to use this remote when brand new ? Remember that thirty four percent of users usually found it difficult . marketing: So it has to be yeah , it's eas they'll pick it up and they'll know what to do . user interface: So the plu the plus w once that's written down on the page that'll be really simple , marketing: The plus thing needs to be worked on . industrial designer: Yeah user interface: won't it ? industrial designer: I think marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: just because it's we've decided to reduce it down to the basic buttons , I think that in itself makes it so much easier to use . marketing: Do Does it make more sense for the middle one to be an just an enter button ? So then you would have to push two buttons every time at least . user interface: That kind of annoys me though , when it's zero six when you have to press marketing: industrial designer:  . marketing: will it minimise the effects of R_S_I_ , which was repeated strain injury ? industrial designer: Injury . It's like right in the user interface: But if you're zapping project manager: Your thumb might get a little bit  industrial designer: Yeah , that's what I was thinking . I don't think it will f industrial designer: We may have to do some more research into other strain injuries that we don't know about . marketing: It's soft , project manager: And that's kind of what the  marketing: and user interface:  . project manager: the PowerPoint slide thing said would be good for R_S_I_ , marketing: And people could industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: so maybe it is but marketing: I don't know what other options there are . marketing: So , one or two do you think ? industrial designer: I think user interface: I I'd say t industrial designer: yeah , I think too . marketing: Now is the colour gonna be there even if it's like vanilla ? user interface: N We we can't really do that marketing: Is the yellow user interface: because for example on the banana theme we can't have it as being yellow . marketing: It sounds like the colour's something that we project manager: Well , yeah the colours are yellow and grey . marketing: But  the yell yeah d yellow's ugly though , user interface: Yeah that's right , marketing: depending on the user interface: we didn't even rea marketing: So I think we'll have to talk to our executive managers , and see if we can get away with just the R_R_ . user interface: or or like that's grey , and it wouldn't be that expensive to have a little bit of metal . marketing: Okay So , do you think that's more of a three then ? Three , four ? industrial designer: Four I think . marketing: Well we have good reasons for it , so we but we can still put a a four ? industrial designer: Okay .  , did we stay true to our motto and put the fashion into electronics ? industrial designer: user interface: marketing: Current trends of fruits and veggies , desire for sponginess . project manager: But maybe more like two 'cause there's no like pictures of fruit , it's just sort of naming it by a fruit . Okay , so that's something that's kind of in the making too , like maybe it'll become more project manager: That's fashionable in itself to have interchangeable plates . industrial designer: The thing is , I think if somebody saw that and you said what was that inspired from , I don't know if you'd instantly say mango .  user interface: project manager: Alright so based on this evaluation , do we average them out sorta thing ? industrial designer:  marketing: Yes we do . marketing: Okay , so our average there , five , six , eight , ten , eleven , twelve , thirteen , fifteen , nineteen , twenty one , divided by eleven project manager: One point nine or something ? user interface: It's industrial designer: It's marketing: is user interface: Yeah . user interface: I got marketing: Does that seem right then ? user interface: Yeah , 'cause we've a four to bring down . industrial designer: Do we have an online calculator ? project manager: I'm attempting to do that right now . Alright , now with that over and done with , our next step is to see if we are under budget . So  in our shared folder , if everyone could go there right now ,  I'm going to  steal a cable . project manager:  it's it's  user interface: Is that the project document ? project manager: it's an Excel file . industrial designer: It says it project manager: 'Kay so far I've added what I think or what is going on ? Great . marketing: Oh is it locked 'cause I'm in it ? project manager: I dunno . user interface: Are we using that ? project manager: I guess we should do it just for one kind . So we need to do a product evaluation , again , user interface: project manager: which is probably  I dunno . A different extension of a industrial designer: Of the actual project rather than the product ? user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: A project ? Is is project manager: Yeah 'cause we're talking about leadership , teamwork . Alright so  Do you guys feel like there was room for creativity ? industrial designer: I think we were pushed . project manager: Pushed for creativity ? user interface: industrial designer:  we weren't really given a lot of time , or materials , yeah , to go about our design task . project manager: I think so as like but you were supposed to have creativ industrial designer: Yeah . Like we were very creative in in coming up with an idea I guess , but m industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: Well we were just limited by resources really and like if we had decided to use the L_C_D_ screen , and like solar power backup and everything , then we wouldn't have been able to afford that . user interface: marketing: project manager: Leadership ? Is this me being like , guys do you like me ?  . industrial designer: and also our personal coach helped us along the way , user interface: marketing: project manager: Yeah . user interface: project manager: Alright how were our means ? industrial designer:  project manager: We needed more Play Doh colours . industrial designer: Yeah and more Play Doh , marketing: industrial designer: 'cause that was all the red we had . industrial designer: So even if we wanted to make a bigger prototype , we wouldn't have been able to . project manager: marketing: Oh really ? project manager: But ever everything else was satisfactory ? marketing: Okay . marketing: The industrial designer: I think the only thing was having to remember to you know to tick the okays marketing: Yeah . project manager: user interface: marketing: user interface: I'm actually not sure if I've saved my presentations . user interface: industrial designer: Well I think we've all learnt stuff from each other , marketing:  industrial designer: like the n  user interface: Yeah . project manager:  ? marketing: Yeah well I guess we really it we bounced off of each other , which was cool . marketing: Like based on marketing stuff and then you'd say something about interface and industrial designer: Yeah . Each other's marketing: Oh does it have smart materials by the way ? industrial designer: Sorry ? marketing: Does it have smart materials ? project manager:  . industrial designer: Well  , did it come into the into user interface: If if it if it industrial designer: I dunno if we counted that in the costs . marketing: By watching T_V_ ? project manager: in such a way that I have no idea 