I'm gonna do an opening , talk about  did you all get the minutes ? I e-mailed them to you .  I'll talk about the new project requirements I've just received , and then we have to make a decision on our remote control functions .  we need to keep in mind the user requirement specification , what needs and desires are to be fulfilled , the functions design , what effects the apparatus should have , and the working design , how the apparatus actually works to fulfil its function . marketing:  shall we go in the order that you just did it ? project manager: Sure , please do . How do I hook my screen up ? industrial designer: I think , you might have to disconnect Rose . user interface: Well there's a wee a wee plug just just that one there marketing: Where does it go ?  , I'm not supposed to move this , user interface: marketing: but user interface: Ah that's it , yep . marketing: user interface: And then you have to press function F_ eight project manager: Function , F_ eight , yeah . project manager: Is it plugged in all the way and you screwed it in and industrial designer: Yeah . marketing:  alright project manager: It's taking it a little bit marketing: I've never attached to anything . marketing: I don't know if you guys are able to get access to  the report that was online or if I'm the only one who is . So we're just gonna talk a little bit about the functional requirements that people specified when they were asked . They had a hundred subjects and their usability lab and they watched them watch T_V_ and recorded the frequency that they used particular buttons and the relevance that those buttons had . Focusing on their desires ,  people specifically said that they thought remotes were ugly , seventy five per cent of the a hundred subjects noted that and that they more importantly though , eighty per cent said that they would be willing to pay more for a fancier looking remote .  also they did some questions on voice recognition and found that the desire for voice recognition was inversely related to age , so younger people were more inclined to want something with voice recognition , whereas the older people in the like sixty and above segment or so did not really think that they would pay more money for voice recognitions . marketing:  people also had certain frustrations , that I think that we could try to take into consideration with our design . People are also frustrated with the difficulty it is to learn how to use a remote and I think that ties back to what you were saying before industrial designer:  . It also mentioned something called R_S_I_ and I was hoping someone might be able to inform me as to what R_S_I_ is , user interface: Repetitive strain injury . So I guess sort of the carpal tunnel type thing , people do not like that ,  the repetitive use , I guess , caused a strain .  looking at the needs people specified , the problem right now is that people's remotes are not matching their operating behaviour . People also zap like to change the channel , about  sixty five per cent during an hour of use . So we really just need to focus in on those volumes and channel changers rather than things like the audio settings , the screen settings and the channel settings , because they're used much more infrequently and probably just complicate what's going on . So I think that some things that we might wanna think about , the idea of an L_C_D_ screen was brought up although they didn't have any details on what people's preferences on that were , so I dunno know if that's coming to me later , or something like that . But something for us to consider also just the phenomenon that less is more when it comes to the buttons on the remote or what we wanna make easiest to use , make sure that , you know , something like an audio setting isn't given as much importance and visibility on the remote as something like channel changing that's used a lot more often . And basically in order for us to win over to the consumer we just need to focus on what it looks like , that it has a fancy appeal and that it's not ugly and that it feels like the way they're gonna use it , so it doesn't give them any hand injuries or things like that . And I think that's in the shared , if I did it right , if anyone wants to look at it . It's a device that allows us to produce certain effects on our television , so i it's basically a communication device . We we tell the remote control what we want to do , it sends a message to the television saying change the channel , change the volume ,  yeah , adjust these settings , adjust the brightness .  how do we actually go about designing a new television remote control ? First thing to do is to come up with the design specifications . We need to know what our final product is gonna be like , so we need a a clear idea of exactly what this product does ,  how it works , and what the end-user is gonna want from this product . Oh , a way I'd suggest that we could go about this is by designing  several different prototypes of user interfaces for this product ,  and then  trying to get some feedback  about marketing: user interface: h how well these particular prototypes work ,  sorta find out what people think of 'em . So in some sense we're gonna we're gonna have to aim for a device which is fairly conventional in design  so that we're not completely shocking people . But I think within that there is also room for us to introduce novel ideas  and to make something that's that's perhaps a little bit different , something that stands out .  the first of these is is technological ye  what can we do with the current state of technology as it is . So as you mentioned things like voice recognition would would add to the price  but it would also im improve the design of the product . user interface: So I had a look on the on the web  to see if I could find a few examples of existing television remote controls . In analysing these we can consider what what things what's good about them ,  what things do they get right , what's bad about them , what's wrong with 'em ,  how we can improve on the designs that that that I found and what can we do to make our product stand out from from the large majority of remote controls . project manager: user interface:  on the left here we've got  an engineering-based design for a remote control , industrial designer: user interface: so it's one that's got lots of buttons , it's it's fully featured , everything you might possibly want to do is there , you know , it's got forward , backwards , up , down , channel numbers , volume ,  freeze frame . Yeah , it's it's fully featured and it might take a while to get to learn to use it , but once you've learned it you can you can do whatever you want with your T_V_ . It's just got the essential functions of the T_V_ changing the channel , play , stop , volume . It would be a lot quicker to learn to use it , but again th it's it's swings and roundabouts .  personally wa what I want from a remote control is a device that's simple , it it's easy to use ,  it's got big buttons for doing the things I do most often , changing the volume , changing the channel . It it does everything that I need it to  , as I said before , I'm quite lazy , I don't wanna walk across the room just to adjust my television . I also want something that that looks cool ,  and that that feels good , that's ergonomically designed . user interface: And I think that's that's why companies like Apple've 've 've made a lot of progress . industrial designer: Right , I really can't see what I'm doing , so does anyone have a project manager: You there it is . marketing: So wait , did it let you go on the Internet or was that just what it let you see ? user interface:  that was just on the d on the company web site , yeah . user interface: industrial designer: Alright  No , how do I play again ? project manager:  the it's right above Draw .  I had a bit of some issues with this , because I wasn't able to find everything I needed , but I guess that's we're still in early stages . Though th the thing about working design is the what we're trying to do as a working design is figure out how the aparata apparatus can fulfil its function . It works because it converts electrical energy to grinding the beans and then you put the bean through a filter and that filters out , and then you get coffee at the end that's nice and hot because of the combination of electrical energy and then the other things that are brought in to make it work . Don't know if I'm explaining that very well , but how do I get to the next s ah . So h the method as  working designers figure out what you need to make it fulfil this practical function , what what needs to be done and how do we convert all the elements to make that done . marketing: industrial designer: So wha the easiest thing to do is to break down all the points at which you need something to happen . So you make a schematic of the way that the the energy is converted tsh towards this practical function . industrial designer: So the findings that I got  very just very briefly is that you have a choice of the way that the information is projected to the receiver and in my opinion infra-red is the best way to do that 'cause you don't need a sight line .  the user interface is critical here , because a lot of the things that happen in a remote control happen through the chip that controls that converts the electrical energy into data , which then goes through the infra-red , so the the chip that  I think Ian is designing , is gonna be crucial . And really it all comes down to the to the user , because they're the one that's controlling most of the working design . So the components that we find here are the energy source , you know the battery or whatever that's gonna m make it work , then the chip , which converts the data , the user that's controlling the chip , and the infra-red bulb that's gonna let us move the data to the receiver . You have your energy source right there which then  brings  energy or information to the chip , which is also controlled by the users . You have energy going to the user who's controlling the chip ooh 's not what I wanted to do   . So you have your energy source , your user interface who's controlling the chip , the chip also uses the energy , and the chip through the use of the user interface is gonna control the switch which will work your infra-red bulb , which will then bring the data to the receiver . And personal preferences , besides the fact that I can't spell , we need a long-lasting energy source , people don't wanna be changing it a lot . We need a straightforward interface , like Ian was saying , simple , not overwhelming it with information and we need a reliable and clear infra-red signal , so that you're not waving your remote around project manager: industrial designer: Rose , do you think you can give me a hand with this ? project manager: Yes , absolutely . marketing: user interface: What's up ? industrial designer: project manager: Lefty loosey , righty tighty . We have a couple new requirements that I was just e-mailed right before the meeting and that we have to keep in in  in mind as we're creating this . project manager: We didn't bring it up yet , or at all in the meetings so far , but we're not gonna work with teletext because  well it that's been taken over by the internet , so we're not gonna worry about  we're not gonna worry about that . Oh , user interface: You don't have it in the States ? marketing: so project manager: It industrial designer: No . W d could would you care to explain it ? user interface: Oh , I didn't realise .  yeah , it's like a I suppose it's kind of similar to a very very basic web browser .  you have like you have  numbers on your remote control ,  y and you type in the page number you want , marketing: user interface: so like you type a hundred on your remote control and this this kind of index appears on the television screen with just some some text and some very blocky looking graphics on it . And you just type numbers to go to different pages and it gives you information , mostly rather boring stuff like what's on T_V_ next and share prices and that kind of thing . industrial designer: But if you ever see the T_V_ saying like go to page one sixty on Ceefax now , that's what they're talking about . industrial designer: I have no idea why we don't have it , but user interface: marketing: That's good . Okay  , well , we're not gonna the management has decided we're not gonna work with that .  marketing: project manager: Okay  and we're also gonna w like your question earlier  whether this is going to be t for television , video , or etcetera . project manager:  and finally there's more marketing , I think , our corporate image has to be recognisable . So while we're gonna make it look pretty we need to use our colour and our slogan i in the new design . user interface: So what's our corporate image like ? It's It's kind of yellow colour with  we put fashion in electronics . project manager: Looks like , yeah , kind of a yellow and black and we have that the emphasis on the R_s in  user interface: It's like double R_ . user interface: marketing: industrial designer: Okay , so we want something that looks good project manager: Yep . You  in your analysis of different market  of the marketing , you identified that different groups wanted different things marketing: project manager: or had certain preferences , for example that  that older people didn't really care for  voice recognition , but younger people did . project manager:  and so who are we aiming this at ? industrial designer: Well if we're gonna say that function  fashion we put the fashion in in electronics then you automatically , I think , a sort of younger group that that's who's gonna be attracted to this . marketing: Yes , I do think , who's gonna have the money to buy that also , that one ? project manager: It's gonna be twenty five Euro remember , so  it has to be avai marketable to  whomever it is . user interface: Is it is it something that's gonna be sold separately from the television or is it something that comes w with a television ? 'Cause that would affect the way that we market it . project manager: Well at least right now what we're doing is  deciding on just the remote itself , so it will probably be sold separately , twenty five Euro by itself . marketing: The only break-down that I was given in terms of age was the voice activation and basically there's a big jump , after thirty five people don't really care if it has voice , so it's like basically fifteen to thirty five that think that that's a good idea . marketing: I dunno I'm gonna be given any other numbers broken down in terms of age later , but if that's sort of the only quality that we have that is divided into age then we would wanna stick between the fifteen and thirty five range . industrial designer: Yeah , that's probably  a population w quite a little bit of disposable income for use on technology anyway , so that might be a fairly good target group for us . user interface: I I would say no , because it's gonna add too much to the price . Especially if we are marketing it as a separate product , people are gonna be paying project manager: user interface: well ,  we've got a price limit of was it twelve twelve and a half Euros for to produce it ? project manager:  . user interface: And I wonder if we can get voice recognition into that twelve and a half Euros without having to make too many other compromises . marketing: But what else are we gonna put ,  not that I'm really gung-ho about it , I don't know what else you can put in a remote to make it technologically advanced though . marketing:  it can look really great and still have the same up-n-down buttons industrial designer: But right . marketing: and why's anyone gonna buy a new remote ? industrial designer: Well but why are we why are we aiming for a technological advancement ? Everything we're talking about is ease of use and simple and that doesn't necessarily mean more technology , marketing: marketing: If someone's looking to buy a new remote , don't they want like an upgrade ? I dunno . project manager: Upgrade ? Well , we can look for we can look at upgrade or we can look at  user-friendly . project manager: Simplification , industrial designer: They could have a crap remote user interface: Yeah . project manager: so industrial designer: that came with their T_V_ that's just impossible to use , or maybe it broke , or maybe they're just missing it . And we also need to talk about if we're only gonna have the very simple ones or also have the other ones just separate somehow or industrial designer:  . marketing: Can you like  this may be too complicated , but , I wish I had something to explain it , like if it was just a simple , either this way or this way , that had like the main buttons and then you could like pull something out , kind of and like you got the rest the buttons , industrial designer: Ooh . user interface: The remote marketing: Do you know what I'm saying ? project manager: Kind of pull out of the side . Like some T_V_s they have a sort of  a sliding screen on the remote control of it project manager:  . user interface: So if you wanna do something complicated like programme your television or re-tune it , then you you open up this little hatch or or slide the screen down marketing: marketing: 'Cause then 's like people who don't wanna ever look at them , never even have to see them project manager: marketing: and if you like get the instruction manual that comes with it and you just don't even read it then you'll never even know that those things can pull out . marketing: And you're a happy person and everyone else doesn't have to have like two remotes , one that has the easy ones and one that has project manager: project manager:  we have to be careful that that that doesn't impede  the chip transmitting information , but  that's gonna be mostly technological thing . project manager: Okay  , so what are we emphasising ? I what in this project ? user interface: Si simplicity and fashion . project manager: Okay , those are very good goals , I think ,  that we have to keep in mind in with everything we do . Simplicity and fashion and , yeah , or usability speci however you wanna say that , which includes  an emphasis on making the infra-red very functional , so that you don't have to travel around a lot . marketing: What can you do to like make the infra-red more functional , like why would it not be ? I'm just wondering . project manager: I think it's a lot to do with battery , but that's just my marketing: Okay . industrial designer: The battery and that I think that the chip takes the data and presents it well , without sort of scattering . industrial designer: The quality  quality of all the components really , we can't really do anything shoddy work , 'cause it's user interface: Yeah . project manager: So our target group , we're saying , fifteen to thirty five ? marketing: Well , I dunno how useful that number is if we're not doing project manager: S voice recognition , which I kind of I kind of feel like voice recognition is not necessary in a remote control , marketing: Yeah . project manager: like it might be necessary for a T_V_ but not for the remote c , you know . user interface: It's , yeah , it's pretty it's pretty high-tech . user interface: marketing: And if the whole idea is you're using a remote then why would you have voice , project manager: marketing: like you know what  and then it's like you wouldn't need a remote you'd just talk to your T_V_ . user interface: It's for , like , the ultimately lazy people , project manager: user interface: who can't even be bothered to pick up the remote . industrial designer: I marketing: Maybe  if I get m more numbers , I'll e-mail you before the next meeting in terms of ages . But this doesn't divide up anything and there was only a hundred subjects also , project manager: marketing: which isn't , really isn't that representative , especially if it's a hundred subjects that th they then can subdivide into age groups that means there's very few in each age group , so industrial designer: Yeah , but I th I think regardless we're we're aiming for the under sixty five or something . I'd say we're  can we narrow it down to maybe  teenagers and families ? 'Cause that would go up to like fifty ? industrial designer: Or like single professionals or something . user interface: we we said simplicity is is one of the features , so it's going to appeal to people , maybe people who have problems with technology , you know , people who get scared by having lots of buttons , project manager: Okay . user interface: but then we've also got fashion , which is something that definitely appeals to younger people . marketing: Well maybe we don't have to defi define the target group by the demographic of age , project manager: Right . marketing: maybe we can define it by like the demographic of like h t how much money they have to spend or something like that , user interface: Yeah . project manager: So maybe it's more useful to d d to define objectives like fashion and simplicity than to find specific target group as far as age is industrial designer: Yeah , t probably .  oh , there're a couple functions do we want something so that do we want some kind of thing to find it if it's lost ? Like a button on a T_V_ you can press industrial designer:  . project manager: and it'll ring or something , I don't know like or beep ? marketing: H  , like I said before , fifty per cent of of the fru f like frustration someone can have that was the biggest one and half the people said that happened and we all mentioned it before we knew about it . marketing: And if we're talking about making something easy that sort of goes along with it so it wouldn't be like a random thing to sort of add in . marketing: so project manager: Okay , we have to we have about four minutes left to define our functions . marketing: user interface: Which are kind of hidden away in some way or well not hidden but they're  they're not as prominent as the main features . And we also want it to be fashionable , which I'm not sure if that's a function so much as a  yeah marketing: on your coffee table , it's not like an eye sore , that kind of thing . Any other essential functions that we need ? Battery ? Do we need a long-life battery ? industrial designer: Battery battery use . user interface: but I dunno if you can project manager: Just 'cause it is an electronic device , the industrial designer:  . I don't I don't think of a way you can operate a chip and convert that much data without without one . industrial designer: But you could maybe have it in a little charging station like a mobile phone , or like a little cradle for your iPod . industrial designer: I dunno , that might contribute to less people losing it too if it it stays in one place . project manager: We have to think about  space in living-rooms , too , like 'cause they're industrial designer:  . project manager: would you put it on top of the T_V_ ? I don't know , just think okay , that's that's a good idea , we'll keep it . project manager:  after the meeting we're gonna each complete a sks  a questionnaire and a summaries summary .  I'll make sure to put up  the minutes and the project documentation and including these PowerPoint slides .  you each have individual actions , I_  I_D_ Industrial Design you've your components concept , User Interface , the user interface concept , market trend wa watching . marketing: project manager: And as as per last time you'll get specific incrat instructions from your personal coach e-mailed to you . And hopefully , I hope , next time you'll be able to access more of the web site that they they seem to tell you that you could . project manager: but  Be sure to note any frustrations or any  issues that come up in your  in your  summary . industrial designer: user interface: marketing: Did you  were you able to like put yours in the group folder ? industrial designer: Yes , I just did that . industrial designer: Yeah ? project manager: Looks like there are  looks like there's a second one kind of of mine that's that I didn't do , industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: Where is that ? Yours is project manager: Under the shared folder , I don't know it might not even be under yours as well . industrial designer: Yeah , that's what I have as well , R Rose project manager: Okay . marketing: No , but that's 'cause I think yours is in the e-mail separate , like it's not on the server 