 then each of you will have your presentation ,  and then we will need to make a decision on the concept for the remote control . industrial designer: project manager:  we decided that , or we know that we need to use company colours , company logo . industrial designer: project manager:  and that they often lose the it's easy to lose a remote .   I think we decided that  the expense was not necessarily worth it , and that it was probably a gimmick , that  would increasingly wear on the consumers' nerves .   and some personal preferences that were found in that would be that it should be a user-oriented remote , something simple .   the user interface then would connect to a chip , which would work with the infrared controls  to send the signal to the T_V_ .  I believe then we came up with a couple of ideas for what we think the design of the remote will be . I was given a brief executive summary , and then an update on some recent fashion trends that we might like to look at .  okay the most important finding was that the fancy look-and-feel seems to be twice as important to the users as the current functional look-and-feel design , which I think we've kind of already discussed before . And again these are all things we've kind of already come up with on our own , but this just backs it up . As far as fashion update , we've learned that fruits and vegetables will be the most important theme for cloths , shoes and furniture . industrial designer: marketing: So that might be a bit of a challenge to incorporate this into our remote , but we can try .  and also , as opposed to last year , this year the material is expected to be spongy in feel . Okay so from that  , as we've already said , we need to focus on a fancy look-and-feel .  I think we've already discovered that it's kind of hard to go away from the traditional rectangular design . But I think that , even if it's very subtle , we need to kind of trick our consumers , so they at least get the idea that they're getting something that's new and modern and sleek and Whether it's through the shape or the colours or all of that . And Manuel had suggested  the energy source and the user interface , discussing some of those ,  that we could change a little bit . We need to keep it simple , have limited buttons , which I think the two piece idea might be really beneficial for . I don't know ,  I guess the two options are if we had our remote in the shape of a fruit or vegetable . But my question is ,  the stereotypically speaking , you kind of picture males with their remote controls , and I'm not sure how they'd feel about having fruity logos on the outside . project manager: marketing: So maybe we could have something that's somewhat removable , or I don't know , different options for female , male target groups . C and look at different types of material that might please our users who want spongy-feeling remote controls . Possibly  like a cover like they have for mobile phones ? marketing: That's what I was thinking yeah . project manager: You have one with a flag , and one with a banana and one that's a spongy user interface: marketing: Yeah .  yeah I talking about the interface concept and how the customer relates to , will use the , consumer will use the actual device .  I was sent some information from the company saying that they , the technology department have devised a new speech recognition technology , where you can program questions into such devices . They gave an example of a coffee machine where you program a question , you program the answer , and the machine responds accordingly .  and then it ju that's just to point out the sort of inconsistent u sort of use of interface in remotes . You can't really see that picture well , but there's various different remotes , once again with lots of different buttons on , making it more complicated . industrial designer: user interface: So , then I had a look at new products that are on the market .  this is the voice , there is a voice recognition remote control , which can control mus multiple devices . Store up to eighty speech samples , controls four devices , T_V_ , cable , satellite , V_C_R_ , D_V_D_ and audio .  the one on the left is very similar to what we drew up on the board in the previous meeting , where there has scroll down functions on the side . And then on the right is obviously an iPod , which is you know possibly one of the simplest things to use out there , and really is , and all that is is just a a nice big scroll menu that y you sort of go through .  then there's things like this , which is a a a kid's remote , where the the parents have the facility to control and program what children can watch before . So the remote control it o only allows them to access the channels that their parents want them to watch . So I don't know if there's a possibility of having one remote contr you know like we just had two components , maybe it can have more components you know , different remotes .  the point made at the end there here is that you have to be sort of be need to be clear on your  devices , as to what , you know , things you use . Sometimes an arrow pointing down , which may suggest volume down , could become confused just as a V_ for volume .  I think , d carrying on from what I've already said , a user friendly remote with minimum buttons . Maybe we've so suggested this two-part thing , where if it was to have a speech recognition thing , you could maybe control that on the do it or program all that on the control bit . And then just have the simple sort of hand-held thing that we sort of devised earlier , as the actual remote .  I don't it could be a graphical display , the actual remote contr the actual control port maybe could have like an iPod where you just sort of control through the menus . Which is just for your gr ninety year old grandma yeah ? project manager: marketing: industrial designer: That's industrial design for cranes , stuff like that . project manager: marketing: industrial designer: Just to to make it more obvious what we have to fit in there , and that we do have to fit the stuff in there .  but let's just wait for this to load up and I'll show you what we're talking about here . The details of the components' design , as you can see there , what we have is the board , main board of the remote control . The underside , that's pretty cheap piece of of technology really top left side you can see the chip , which is the , what we were talking about , this was is the device to recognise the signals the input , and it passes it on to a row of  further transistors and stuff like that on the right side that actually amplify the signal , which later on is being , is being transferred to a infrared lamp which then  of course shines infrared light onto the television which then will recognise what signal  it's getting and will do what you tell it . Its job is to wait for you to press a key , then to translate that key press into infrared light signals ,  that are received by the television . Transistor amplifies the signal and then sends the m sends the signal to the L_E_D_ which translates the signal into infrared light . The sensor in the T_V_ can see the infrared light , and seeing the signal reacts appropriately .  the lower part of it , I don't know if you can see that properly , with the green greenish board is is what we what we saw in the first the first slide just flipped over .  what you do is you have , don't have cables , but you have the connections actually in these in these lines on the on the board .  which  sends it over to the transistors and all that stuff that marketing: industrial designer: amplify the signal and all that is being sent to the infrared lamp up there .  we are also restricted in the use of our outer shell , or in the material that we could use for our outer shell .  I've gotten some information that we could use for the case material plastic , rubber , as well . project manager: What's the approximate per hundred thousand for the titanium ? user interface: marketing: user interface: industrial designer: Oh fya marketing: industrial designer: I don't have an information on that . However our company obviously can provide us with  with the titanium , so I assume , I'm , I was given an okay to use it . project manager: industrial designer: It certainly is an expensive material , project manager: industrial designer: I'm aware of that , but I was given an okay .  what we could use is , or what I was offered , or what we could use , is a basic bateer battery . Where you just move them m move the the actual device and this pr  provides it with with  some energy . marketing: industrial designer: You don't wanna wind up your remote control before you can use it right ?  solar cell is interesting . project manager: Works well in Arizona but in Edinburgh not so industrial designer: Always the you But marketing: Y probably not yeah . marketing: industrial designer: So I'd say what we're stuck with really is  the basic battery .  however when it comes to the scroll wheel of the iPod I've one big objection and that is that we have to fit an L_C_D_ into the remote control as well . If you have a squishy  kind of remote control , then an L_C_D_ screen may be affected by the movement . If we have a more sophistic  sophisticated scroll wheel rather than this very basic  set-up that we that I've just presented ,  the chip has to be more s more sophisticated and thus more expensive as well . I don't have any details to , when it comes to the cost but  it will be a significant difference . I'd rather say drop the titanium and therefore let's have a more sophisticated chip , but that's not up to me to decide really .  it limits our choice and squishy is hip , so I'd say rather not go for for that . But obviously that's not our problem  since we have decided or against solar cells , I assume right ? Or is anybody still marketing:  . user interface: Would the sort of spongy and the the plasticky thing y you can get those mobile phones that initially have a it is plastic but then they have sort of a a s a cover on it which is just sort of soft and stuff . user interface: So I don't know if that would still be possible to have you know in plastic . marketing: The we can have the fruits and vegetables on the spongy parts , so they can remove it . user interface: So you as the the possibility of having a a graphical display on it , like a screen ? Like the iPod ? industrial designer: You can have an L_C_D_ screen . industrial designer: Alright ? So plastic yes , titanium yes , but this will of course influence the form . So the way to go is if you want a scroll wheel you either make it flat and angular ,  add an L_C_D_ screen , and  then you can basically choose either plastic or titanium . Add an L_C_D_ screen , add a scroll wheel , that'll be fine . project manager: So the ru wait the rubbery we can shape it however we want ? Or the rubbery we cannot ? industrial designer: With rubber we could  sh pretty much shape it the way we wanted it , project manager: 'Kay . industrial designer: but we cannot add scroll wheels , and we cannot add an L_C_D_ screen . user interface: Could we not you know have a shape with a scroll and the screen , and then j just sort of that initial shape we had , just which is  sort of banana-esque . user interface: And  you know you just p stick on just sort of rubber things that that sort of grip the thumb bit . project manager: Is that an option , a plastic shell with a rubbery coating on at certain spots ? industrial designer: S Certainly can be done yes . So The fruit design  How about  affecting the surface of the actual  remote control ? Say we don't make it p a particular fruit shape obviously , marketing:  . user interface: I don't suppose we have to stick to co industrial designer: Well we we're supposed to stick to the company colours though , user interface: Stick to the colours yeah . industrial designer: Grapefruit marketing: industrial designer: is what we'd go for , when it comes to the outer appearance perhaps . project manager: I would say , if I were to make a decision , I would probably put the fruit aspect at the lower lower end of the spectrum of of importance . project manager:  marketing: I think having a shape could be a little ridiculous , project manager: marketing: like user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: So project manager: Well perhaps the implied shape will be enough to lure that fruit-minded remote buyer . project manager: It's sort of industrial designer: Well so why not add a couple of grey stripes and make it look like a banana ? project manager: couple of couple of grey stripes . project manager: We could put the grey stripes on the bottom so that that person could turn it over . project manager: Rather than rather th industrial designer: marketing: user interface: It could and then you could actually h put the banana-shaped thing on the fruit bowl , on the coffee table , marketing: Oh . project manager: Maybe the holder , if we were to have a holder , it could be shaped like a fruit . project manager: Do you have more to your presentation ? industrial designer: That's pretty much it . I informed you about the materials , what the interior has to look like , and what the limitations to certain materials are on project manager: Oh . marketing: So is the two piece idea out ? Or have we not decided ? user interface: Well we sort of rid of that because gonna use a battery . industrial designer: Well we can still design a two-piece  remote  without having a base , having one of them be a base station , user interface: Yeah . marketing: industrial designer: but just have it be an optional either big remote with lots of functions , or you take out the smaller piece . industrial designer: So  which then , as I understand it , would probably limit the , limit again the the the use of certain materials , because they would be too expensive . Say like have a scroll wheel and  on both of them , or have an L_C_D_ screen and so on so on .  for our components concept we need to come up with the energy source ,  the chip-on-print , and the case .  and then for the user interface concept we need to decide what the tape , what , what the type is .  Energy source I think we've , I think we've decided batteries , although not exciting , are probably our best bet . industrial designer: Okay when it comes to the chip-on-print , as I said , the the more advanced features you want ,  the fancier the chip has to be and the more expensive .  if you want just a normal button version , the chip-on-print is gonna be marketing:  . If we go with the plasticky case , or the the plastic case ,  then the chip-on-print is still kind of , we could have either or . user interface: just maybe marketing: finger grips just on top of the plastic ? user interface: yeah . So we would , we would have the L_C_D_ screen ? industrial designer: as long as the pla  the rubber is nowhere near the controls , yes . So I guess the case would be plastic , with Perhaps that's not even enough rubber to qualify as being part of it . marketing: So then for the scroll , are we going for the iPod type ? user interface: Yeah I think so . project manager: Which will require a more expensive chip-on-print right ? industrial designer: Yes . So I guess that , is that , is that about it ? So we have a good idea of what we're gonna need to to do on this ? industrial designer: Right . And the two of you get to play with the  modelling components and  user interface: marketing: project manager: maybe and and get us a prototype . user interface: project manager: So that basically just be working on the prototype ,  we'll accomplish your other two actions 