I actually tried to transfer it to My Documents , but marketing: Yeah , you have to you have to close that window . marketing: project manager: Yeah , but I've ta  marketing: project manager: right , I'll just re-do it . user interface: it's a bit more fun , isn't it ? And it's kinda not really at a kind of you think apple , you think computers , like Apple Mac . What's this this one ? user interface: Yeah , and cherries are fun , summery . marketing: industrial designer: They're thinking user interface: But  , we didn't have anything small enough to write . industrial designer: For the first time , well it was hard to get the h  the actual labelling on the individual buttons . industrial designer: Hum , you separate off in colour the volume related buttons from the channel related buttons , so you've got the volume in orange on design there , user interface: marketing: Yeah . And so when I done my thing on cost a I had assumed that the only  button that would be a different colour would be the  the red apple button . But  , yeah so  but there would be a cost implication on that , marketing: I'll see if I can find them . project manager: and  as I suppose that so whether wanted to put in all these colours , would be  open to debate , I suppose . industrial designer: Yeah , sis user interface: Well the colours wouldn't like that's they wouldn't be too important , marketing: Have user interface: but we didn't have any white Play-Doh . marketing: project manager: Right , okay so  And the second one underneath would be the idea for the industrial designer: Yes , we'll have the slide-away . So So , we've got prototype presentation , which we've just done , evaluation criteria ,  and finance , so I guess w we have to evaluate if that meets the various  aspects that we're looking for  from  our previous meeting . user interface: project manager: So other than the fact that it doesn't have the second layer , but  obviously obviously it would . We got the buttons and the only thing that has really changed is the is the colouration of the buttons , industrial designer: Yes , yes . project manager: and whether it would  marketing: So if you had to do a presentation or will you just work it on the prototype ? industrial designer: This this is a user interface: that's it . marketing: That's the pr project manager: Right , so  as far as the the finance of it would be concern would be to make sure that the cost aye the production cost 'cause you may remember that was one of the first  considerations was to be in d under   twelve fifty or two and a half  twelve and a half Euros . So that should  Right , so , seems to me that the thing that I have to do is is quickly find that  industrial designer: Could we get this on the board just so we can see or do you mean do you have the figures there ? marketing: we should plug it in . marketing: Do you wanna plu do you wanna plug it in into the the back of that one . So , sh marketing: We could do it as we d go along , the production costs , looking at the prototype . project manager: Okay , so , by the fact that we've got  the simple chip and the  kinetic energy source , we've got a single curved case . industrial designer:  project manager: Well , originally , I thought there would just be  one in there because it was the one red apple . But industrial designer:  project manager: So the so the real w the real question then would come in . Do you make all the buttons marketing: Well do we'll do it on the prototype , project manager: O marketing: so do two , see how much it is . project manager: We've got special material , rubber , wood , titanium , et cetera and that , industrial designer: And then we'd have project manager: so , I was originally , I was thinking rubber wasn't special , marketing: project manager: So And the r  effectively we've got sixteen buttons that we're gonna have on there . I think you just do one , don't you , for the project manager: W I don't know is is is the sort of answer , is that meant to be all sixteen buttons , and therefore  , what's the op The option was maybe not to have rubber buttons , but just to have the one that was soft and spongy , and therefore marketing: I think I think it's just it's just a one . Else project manager: Whereas it would be the special colour would be for the So you would only have the one special button that was rubber , whereas the rest would be hard plastic . marketing: I thi I think I think the button supplement i is just a supplement for all the buttons made in a different material , rather than per button . project manager:  Okay , if we just had all the buttons as standard , except for the one red apple , then that would take care of that , I guess . project manager: And when I plugged that in last time remember it has to be under twelve and a half . project manager: And if What happened ? marketing: You've just gone off the window into another one . user interface: Maybe if you just minimise that one in the top right-hand corner of the little box . user interface: project manager: Okay , so , but the point would be that if we  if we just did special Sorry , you were saying that it would be that one , that you would put in one there . industrial designer: So that's nine point one there so we've got some project manager: So it Well , is it s is no , it's nine point seven I've got . industrial designer: Just give us a bit of project manager: So , that would that would work out fine if   as assuming your correction are are assuming that that one change covers all the buttons , then that would be fine . project manager: And there's nothing else as far as I can see that we we had  planned to put on . user interface: S marketing: industrial designer: I switching around those th  on the electronics we got the sample sensor . industrial designer: I guess the sample sens sample speaker would be the voice recognition thing , which puts up to four ? marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: We should be slightly over our budget but if we gather something else down to slightly lower standard , and maybe go with the one the special form buttons , then we could have the speech marketing: Yeah .  , if we Okay , that gives us twelve point seven industrial designer: So  maybe if we got rid of like the maybe one of the special colours , kept them all the same colour , then we could have the voice recognition project manager: But remember that the idea was to keep it the colour of the industrial designer: without project manager: Oh , I see , so just take out the special colour for the apple and industrial designer: Yeah , yeah . D wouldn't you have to keep the simple chip there as well ? You know how you turn that one to a zero , wouldn't the chip and the sample speaker be separate things , marketing: Yeah , we have to have it industrial designer: Oh possibly , yeah , yeah maybe . industrial designer: We should Yeah , that would save us one , though we'd still be slightly ov project manager: But you reckon that i  the thing is that you wanted to a appeal to people and not have to replace batteries . Well , since it's the through the whole technology type thing , you were saying in the market research that people like kind of interesting gadgets in them .  , whether they would figure the the s  sample senor and the sample speaker , voice recognition be sort of a worthwhile thing to have . industrial designer: or whatever they would prefer not  You know what  ? The the problem was the battery's running out and losing the  losing the remote . project manager: But which do you think or which do we think is the more important of the options ? In a sense , at the moment , we've got a total which we need to reduce down by one point two . The other option if we're planning on just going for something cheap and cheerful , would be to  make it originally , we're gonna make it a simple product . marketing: Shall we shall we evaluate the prototype as we've got it now first , and then sort of make decisions about what needs to be changed after ? project manager: So , we've all got a note of it's thirteen point seven , isn't it , with everything we want on . Sorry , do you want that back up ? marketing: Yeah , I just had a presentation to do . user interface: But I do think  the v  voice recognition thing would be more impressive than the fact that it's got no battery . project manager: Okay , but remember the main the only reason we were planning on having the voice recognition was so that they could find the remote if it got lost . Right okay  , This is about the evaluation criteria that we use for the the prototype we've got here . user interface: marketing: And so the method is that the design team makes a prototype , and we evaluate the prototype against some criteria that we've formulated . And those ones are gonna be in response to sort of market research , and also finance , I guess . And do that on a scale from say true being one and false being seven , so if it's neither true nor false , then that's four . So , I got a set of criteria just based on the marketing that we need to add in a financial one as well , at the end .  so , We have to say whether it's true or false that the product looks and feels fancy . So if we do a sort of a one So industrial designer: Okay , well we have a single curve , which was maybe like the feel of the product's quite good . industrial designer: then we have the rubber kinda spongy feel , which was in at the time . marketing: Of but I think What Is one false , or is t one true ? user interface: One's true . user interface: Yeah , 'cause we haven't got the double curve , so we can't like say it's completely true . So , false is seven , true is one , and So  say about a two for fancy , industrial designer: Yeah . Well , it's just that  saying something remember that when you look down , we've got solar power , we've got  various other things you could have , and we're not going for these options . marketing: Yeah , so that so sh should we go for a a two on that ? project manager: Okay . And  , how much does the product demonstrate technical innovation do you reckon ? industrial designer: deciding between the kinetic power or  the speech recognition , and if we had either of those for our budget , they both show a reasonable amount of speech recognition . So , what about the pr The prototype as it is , industrial designer:  marketing: we've got we've got the speech recognition on it , haven't we . marketing: Alright , so project manager: Didn't you ? Or marketing: So it doesn't It's pretty The prototype as it is isn't sort of  fulfilling the industrial designer: No may is maybe about neutral user interface: Maybe a three . industrial designer: plus it it it's got something , but it hasn't got marketing: Okay . project manager: The problem is we have to reduce down from there to get it down to twelve point five . And if you're definitely going for the sample sensor and sample speaker , then because that industrial designer: 'Kay . project manager: the other functions we've got in are are more at the The special material , the rubber , wood , titanium , et cetera , if you go for that , th that's at the high end 'cause that's point six , whereas down at  just special colours  is point two . Now you're trying to lose one point two , so it seems to me that if you're going for the sample sensors speaker , you're basically then having to go for the cheaper options on everything else . project manager: And and the simple way to do it would be to have a battery , to have your  sample sensor speaker , industrial designer:  project manager: and then you're looking to  take out  point two , marketing: S I'm just gonna check my email . user interface: How much of a difference would it make if we made the case in plastic ? Because we did say that we don't wanna follow the fashion too much . You could either you could have it If you have a in plastic rather than rubber , then that would  enable you to get you could keep kinetic then , you could keep your sample sensor , and you'd be looking to take out point two . So you could  fiddle that down your special form at the bottom , or your special colour at the bottom . industrial designer: So it says if we make a slightly more fancy , then we lose points innovation , and if we make it more innovative innovative , then we lose points on it being fancy , so project manager: Yeah . project manager: Ye marketing: I just read the email again and it sort of says it's evaluate the design sort of as it is , I think , so I think we need to think about finance after we've sort of evaluated that design . project manager: Well , okay , but user interface: Well , I suppose it's rubber as it is , isn't it . marketing: So ,  does this need to go up a bit or something , 'cause we've got both the both the  the speech project manager: We got we've we've got thirteen point seven user interface: Yeah . project manager: and we've got it in at the moment and if and basically , we're going to reduce down from that . project manager: But the current one , you'd say would be fancy , would be too industrial designer: Yeah , yeah .  , for for innovation , so we've got the speech the speech thing , and project manager: industrial designer: Yeah , m  user interface: Maybe two ? industrial designer: Yeah , it was just doing it quite well . industrial designer: I think we're gonna have to lose some of these , but the moment , as it stands , it's  project manager: Yeah , I woulda said two would seem reasonable . project manager: The product is a recognisable real r  reaction product ? marketing: Yeah , this is industrial designer:  the sensor using all of its all of its products , all of its buttons , marketing: This project manager: industrial designer: and it's got a fairly big label on the bottom saying where it comes from . So this is about sort of the corporate image of like new sort of sleek technology and all that sort of thing , as well as having the logo on and all that . industrial designer: project manager: marketing: Does it fit in with our other other products , which  are sort of coffee makers and spacecraft . project manager: S user interface: marketing: user interface: well it's got the same  speech feature as the coffee machine . marketing: What do y industrial designer: Also it's kind of spongy rubberiness is maybe bit more kinda comfortable than kinda sleek and new age . So we're going for a two , marketing: So industrial designer: Maybe a kind of three ?  d project manager: three ? user interface: Yeah , two or three . marketing: Two or three ? user interface: Well , the logo would be more  recognisable on the actual thing . project manager: So we're now on to changing it to get it to fit in with the budget requirements , and then marketing: Yeah . user interface: What does what do all them numbers mean then ? Do we add them up and rate or anything ? marketing: Yeah we s yeah , I think we sort of add them up so sort of at an average is gonna be I'm just gonna do this in my head . industrial designer: Yeah , so it's marketing: So So it's  it's pretty good at the moment , but it's gonna get worse , isn't it . industrial designer: So should we get So are definite Was it thirteen point seven was the definite price rule if has . marketing: Do you wanna plug it into yours so we can get up the the finances project manager: Okay , well I put it back on . industrial designer: So I guess this Is this the last stage once we sort out the finances part of it ? project manager: marketing: I'm not sure . project manager: Okay , so what was it , control  F_ eight , wasn't it ? user interface: Ah it's on . So , you can see there that the If you want to keep kinetic , right , you've got a choice there of going down to battery , which would save you one . industrial designer: Oh actually we just have a plastic case , then we lose two points , project manager: That's right . Yeah , I was I was thinking that because maybe maybe the sort of rubber case is a bit less in sort of the corporate identity than the sort of you know sleeker plastic case . project manager: Okay , so industrial designer: And that would allow us to have all the technical innovations . So we'd lose a little bit on the maybe kind of project manager: So we're going for plastic , yes ? marketing: Lose a little bit on the fashion , yeah , but project manager: Yep . industrial designer: Oh yeah , and that would now be marketing: And then industrial designer: Yeah , that's that's within the budget .  Do we actually have Do we just have one special  special forms down here ? project manager: Well ,  w  there was debate as to how you would count them . industrial designer:  project manager: Well originally I was assuming we had the red apple , and therefore , that was the special colour . industrial designer: And we we've we've got we've got enough for another user interface: Yeah , I think we should just imagine white buttons . industrial designer: so we've got enough for another project manager: Well , we've got special form . Now that would be one button , and the question was was that all buttons or is that just one button . 'Cause our plan really was to have one button only with a special industrial designer: Yeah ,  project manager: So so no matter how you look at that , that would be the same . industrial designer: But the but but but the project manager: The other thing would then be special material , rubber , wood , titanium . industrial designer: I think maybe the special colour , we've got three now just because the volume buttons are different , marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: I guess we'd have the ones which are blue at the moment would would just be the standard colour . industrial designer: Yeah , which I think we should Yeah , they'll still be fine for the for the price . marketing: Well I thin I think you you you just need two for the special colour 'cause it's just two supplements , you know . The one colour's gonna be moulded out of a piece of plas  of rubber , isn't it . project manager: The rest are all standard , although you could argue that should maybe be You were making these buttons down the bottom , I was presuming , bigger than the other ones , or were you ? Was that the idea ? industrial designer: Ne  user interface: Yeah , the volume ones should stand out a bit . user interface: marketing: Okay , so tha industrial designer: So I think that should still be okay . industrial designer: So decide we've lost a little bit on the fashion and lost a bit on the fancy kinda side of it , project manager: Yep . industrial designer: but generally speaking , we've kept the other attributes to the project manager: I woulda said so . marketing: So shall we do a Well ,  industrial designer: And specially it definitely could fits the the real product What was the what's the company name ? project manager: Real Reaction produ user interface: Real Reactions ? industrial designer: R yeah . user interface: industrial designer:  it still seems definitely fit that p so that's like if that's the new age kind of  inno innovative c type company , then  having the kinetic feature and the voice recognition is p quite high up on marketing: Yeah , so  project manager: Yep I would s marketing: So it's w if we've if we've put in for another special form on a button , then maybe they could be a different shape . That would be poss seeing as seeing as it's cheaper to make them a different seeing as we've got , you know , we've made it a a special form , so project manager: You mean of industrial designer:  marketing: And that would sort of maybe keep us close on the sort of the fashion type one . And it would sort of , you know , keep it quite fancy as well , project manager: Well you could argue you might do it once a year , you would change , industrial designer: So next year you could make next year's model the same , but have it as a a yeah whate whatever , a lemon . project manager: Yeah , we've the main thing we've changed really is the casing isn't it ? marketing: Is it industrial designer: That yeah , that was  marketing: The rubber . industrial designer: I think we've saved quite a bit because we've just got the push-button interface , which is by far the cheapest . industrial designer:  So maybe in a sense not having that , maybe we've lost some maybe lost something on the innovation side ? marketing: But  industrial designer: I dunno . marketing: So  , we've got we got rid of the rubber case , but we've now s we now sort of got an extra form , and an extra colour for the buttons . So maybe in terms of sort of fanciness and fashionability , we're pretty much the same , maybe . industrial designer: And everything else has stayed pretty much the same , so project manager: Well , ease has certainly stayed . And what about the sort of innovation ? industrial designer: well we've still got the kinetic energy . We've maybe lost Hasn't it It's hard to tell how the rubber the rubber casing would really affect project manager: How it would play out , yeah . Whether whether that's considered to be sort of part of the corporate identity , I don't know .  industrial designer: But I think more the the features of the actual control will be more important than maybe than the the actual aesthetics , but marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: But either way , I think we've made it fairly close to what marketing: Yeah . Okay , well  user interface: Yeah , I don't see how we could make it any more .  , apart from maybe doing the whole thing in the kinda light shade of blue , like the casing . user interface: But then what colour would you make the R_s ? industrial designer: just the the company logo . project manager: Well , but you've got the company logo on there , which would effectively be a stick-on badge . marketing: Hey , what what what's the company colour ? Did you get told what the company colour is or industrial designer: I'm still not quite sure we've established that . user interface: I just project manager: But but i but in the sense that , as you saw with  the Windows logo badge , it doesn't really matter . user interface: project manager: There's virtually n The way that you frame , you know , the Windows badge on there , it really doesn't matter what colour it is , marketing:  . project manager: so long as our company's logo is framed w in the same way as that with a like a black outline . So basically , even if you had a silver the same colour of silver on your display , because you've got effectively a double edging on the  on the logo , it means that it splits off what your logo is from the from the product . 'Cause you've got sort of we've got point two to play with if you really wanted to . marketing: Or would that be t project manager: Well , we decided that the blue ones were the  the standard colour . project manager: So you were talking about   We're assuming that all the buttons on the second panel , the hidden away panel , would all be standard . industrial designer:  marketing: Shall we save the point two for profitability then ? project manager: Well , yeah . Bu but but  was the was there not a button that you were thinking of on the  on the other opt you know , on the second page , as it were , that  you were thinking of maybe having as a different colour ? user interface: I don't think they would really need to be . industrial designer: Yeah , maybe we've m user interface: Needs to be an enter button , but could just be the same as well . industrial designer: Maybe for the the one they're gonna see all the time , we make it look good , and  , fit the kind of idea of what they want . industrial designer: And then for the more functional buttons , we don't worry too much about that and just have that as like a plus it's hidden away anyway , you're not gonna see it at the start .  it's the sort of thing that , you wanna pick up the controller and just hit a button quickly to change the channel or volume . project manager: Yeah , well marketing: So , if it's dead obvious , then that's fine . But if you're opening the panel and you're looking and you're tuning , then you're paying a bit more attention . user interface: Shouldn't we maybe lose a point on fashion , go to a three ? 'Cause we've lost the overall spongy feel . project manager: marketing: Well , but I think we said that w Because you got rid of the rubber , we put an extra an extra sort of fruit  shape on one of the buttons . marketing: le lemon sh user interface: Did we decide what that was , which button it was ? On the volume ones ? marketing: I think well , we could have lemon shaped ones with the volume ones or something . marketing: industrial designer: marketing: Did did you have to have a rubber case , though , for rubber buttons ? Or was it the other way around ? industrial designer: You had to have rubber buttons if you had the rubber case . project manager: So what bit are we on to ? user interface: can I just check if that's a cherry or an apple ? Did we decide against the apple because of Apple Mac ? And did we make it a cherry officially ? project manager: Yeah . user interface: project manager: marketing: project manager: Oh drats , I've botched that , haven't I . user interface: So were we aiming for a certain target on that scale ? marketing: Well , we're aiming for  one for all of them . marketing: M but it really has to fit into the budget , so I guess we just have to adjust things to get it i in the Which is fair enough . Yeah , I think industrial designer: As an overall product which has to be quite cheap , we've just about achieved everything . What's on the agenda ? project manager: Right , okay  What's happened here ? Right , okay   . So we got So we've done the the finance bit and the Excel project and the We've done the redesign . Now satisfaction with , for example , room for creativity , leadership , teamwork , means , et cetera , whiteboard , digital pens , et cetera . So , we're actually now  , in a sense , on to the evaluation of the course rather than the evaluation of the project is m my understanding of it . project manager: I suppose the easiest way of doing it is to put some notes down , which I will do . Well , we were finding out various things in in be in-between the meetings , project manager: In you on your own . marketing: and they didn't the one meeting didn't always follow on for the other one , you know , sort of we had things thrown in at the second meeting where , you know , you'd looked at the remote controls and seen the curviness , but in the first one you'd also looked at some remote controls and looked at the buttons , project manager:  marketing: and I don't understand why it would be in separate meetings that you'd do that . You know , you'd sort of you'd probably present it at one or something like that . project manager: The only thing you find is in a manufacturing process , you would normally , you go to a meeting , you decide , right , you do this , you do that , you do that . So industrial designer: Yeah , I suppose and then be going out and finding more information each time marketing: Yeah . project manager: Whereas , this time , you're really getting it from a database source , industrial designer: and then diff things will be relevant . project manager: Anyway , so , what do you want to put down ? user interface: marketing: project manager: I've put , seemed okay . industrial designer: Is this go It kinda kis fits the purpose that it was something everyone knows about and then something we can at least look at and think how we can improve on . project manager: You have to do it within a set time frame is the other thing , so marketing: But think like it was a bit restrictive just to say that you have to design a television remote control , in a way . From the website it looks it's quite innovative , but we're coming up with some bucket shop product aren't we user interface: marketing: that's , you know , fifteen quid . Like  , companies can have like a range of products and project manager: I th I  d industrial designer: I don't know how it works but I guess that something got sent out and have like a brief to kind of project manager: But the other thing is that  they're I'm guessing that they're trying to use this  software to to demonstrate how you could  do a project . project manager:  for  you normally , you got a problem , so you go to your tutor and find out information to see how to get it fixed . project manager: So what she's doing is she's having to spend a day at the computer terminal at one end so that any student that comes along can  ask whatever question . And then you or the idea is that the whichever  person's at the other end can point them in the right direction , show them where to either give them directly give them help , or secondly , point them in the right direction , either at the library , or  or or come back , or go and see Joe Bloggs , or whatever . So  , and that was a project I suspect similar to this , because they they were actually trying to debug the  computer software to enable  to enable it to work .  if you look at their products on their website here , Real Reaction ,  it's all pretty high-tech and cutting edge . So project manager: Does industrial designer: voice recognition , especially not could project manager: You've got voice recognition computers , marketing:  yeah . Okay , industrial designer: Yeah , so it's just like the same products , but just put together in a different way . marketing: I don't think sort of the budget  allowed us to do anything project manager: Bit bit arbitrary . marketing: Well ,  I don't think it I just don't think it fitted in with the rest of their products .  , they've got all these sort of , you know , high definition D_V_D_ and portable seven inch d  lightweight computer screens , project manager: marketing: and  I'm thinking , do you know , one cheap remote control doesn't really fit in . project manager: So , we're m we're meant to comment on leadership and the means , E_ G_ whiteboard , digital pens , et cetera . user interface: marketing: Surely they they should produ project manager: And and new i new ideas found was the the other thing . user interface: But we can't really all fairly comment on leadership because you are the Project Manager . project manager: Now , I'd much rather be in marketing user interface: marketing: project manager: but I certainly didn't get this  computer to work as well as I would have liked . marketing: project manager: However ,  Alright  means , so whiteboard  so really , it's  equipment . marketing: Comput computers could be a bit difficult at times but user interface: But  , I d I don't I'm not sure I see the value in these .  , they record what you're writing , and then what do you do with it ? Where do you get the recording ? Do you plug the computer or something ? marketing: I think there's a little there's a little  chi industrial designer: So it's not just for us , it's for the experiment as a whole , so marketing: There's a little there's a little chip , I think you must plug it into something industrial designer: Should we quickly look at the last slide ? marketing: and it produces a industrial designer: Sh user interface: Right . Whether it just produces a big image of sort of everything you've written or something , and Page after page . project manager:  and  voice marketing: project manager: was it voice activated  marketing: Voice recognition , yeah . marketing: To fill in these fill in these questionnaires project manager: Right , so ,  are the costs within budget , marketing: Oh no . Is that everything ? marketing:  ? I think that we've got two questionnaires and a report on the last meeting .  , so we don't re So really I tried to save this the last time at twelve point three , and it didn't seem to have saved anywhere 