 , on the agenda for this , for this particular meeting , we'll have your three presentations on what you've done since our last meeting , after we came up with  some general ideas of our design . And , then we have to make some key decisions on , on our remote control concept , and how we're gonna make it , what  materials we're gonna use , and that sort of thing . I've been doing some research into the different components that we could use ,  what's available to us f to actually make the remote control .  , first of all we have to look at how the remote control is actually made , and what is it happens inside the casing , which is more your field .  , thes main internal feature is a circuit board , which contains all the elec electronics and also the contacts with the power source .  , there are several components of , the circuit board that we need to consider , where we'll be getting them from , what they'll be made of .  , diodes , transistors , resonators , resistors , and capacit capacitors all need to be considered as well . project manager:  Are they all included , like mandatorily , or r are these different options ? industrial designer: these , they're all different options , they're all separate , apart from the chip , which we will probable decide whether we buy a simple , a regular , advanced .  , all the other things are individual components that we'd have to get in separately , and work out the most , like , effective  circuit , including all the wires and everything like that . And the L_E_D_ of course , that's a light emitting diode . So , we could , so we've got flex flexibility with colours and things , with that as well . We could use a basic battery , but that brings with it , like they need to be recharged and the bulk , the size of it as well . There's a hand-powered dynamo which is a sort of thing that was used for torches fifty years ago . project manager:  What is a hand-powered dynamo ? industrial designer: where you manually charge up the power . project manager: Just every , every once in a while ? industrial designer: Like you wind up something . marketing: industrial designer: Whereas kinetic energy is a new idea that's being used by some watches and other devices , where you just shake the device and it gives it power .  , or there's solar power , which we've been considering inside a building , which is where it's gonna be used , might not be quite so useful .  , lots of considerations for the case , like what sort of shape it would be , curved or flat . I know I've had a remote control before which you couldn't tell which was the front and the back , user interface: industrial designer: 'cause it had so many buttons on , and the shape was so symmetrical that I'd be pressing like a volume button instead of the on button . industrial designer: we also can choose what materials  , the we could use metal , we could use rubber which might be more  ideal for the anti-R_S_I_ . It's like the same sort of rubber that's used in stress balls and things like that , so it's very like soft , not so stressful on your hands . user interface: industrial designer: I don't think that's quite up to date with what we're looking for here . We've developed some we've got some good advances in technology , with our research team have found some  new multiple  option scroll buttons . I think that was brought up for , they're basically quite a flexible design , modern , you don't have to use individual buttons . It , it industrial designer: project manager: we would have to have an L_C_D_  industrial designer: Yeah . We're going on to that later with the advanc with the L_C_D_ that means we'd need a really advanced chip . industrial designer: also we've got the integrated pushbutton , which is what we're most familiar with . It's not been seen before , so it could be quite a , a novelty factor , attractive as well . And also energy saving 'cause you're producing the energy , you don't need an external sort of battery supply or solar panels . industrial designer: Rubber casing I thing would probably the best , if we're going for the anti-R_S_I_ and like more choice with  aesthetics . And probably the regular chip as opposed to the simple , marketing: industrial designer: then we could possibly have the scroll and the push , but no L_C_D_ , 'cause we probably can't afford that one .  , one concern with the rubber casing is that it would be rubber encapsulating all of these chips and diodes and delicate technology as industrial designer: Another thing is it might be more difficult if it's a rubber exterior talking about putting on interchangeable plates . project manager: I don't see how a like a rubber plate going on top it would stay there . industrial designer: Maybe if the , if it was just kind of a , more of a rubber coating which was on to a case . user interface: W industrial designer: So , it was kind of , the whole thing would be removable . user interface: Well , there's , there is a certain phone that has like a rubber casing , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: you can get sort of outer casing for iPods and something , that's just it's protective as well . industrial designer: it would reduce the impact if it was dropped or something , as well , 'cause it wouldn't damage itself so easily . I , is it possible to put designs onto this type of rubber ? industrial designer: As far as I know . industrial designer: I thought that was project manager: But I think that it's worth it , kinetety , kinetic  user interface: Yeah , tha marketing: user interface: marketing: I guess it's a bit scary 'cause it hasn't been done before . marketing: Yeah so there's there is a one battery , because most remotes use two batteries I believe . marketing: So , if it was running off of one battery as a user interface: That would be good yeah . user interface: Maybe we could you were saying about  solar power ma maybe not working indoors , but a lot of calculators , yeah , have solar power . user interface: So maybe that could be incorporated as industrial designer: May maybe that could be the backup . user interface: Do , do those calculators industrial designer: s but some marketing: So , if we're doing user interface: yeah . If we're industrial designer: But thing is , it's not you don't need the solar all the time . It can be like you can have the solar energy and then it can store that energy and use it . industrial designer: I suppose it would be really annoying if you get to think , oh no , I forgot to charge my remote today . industrial designer: Like if the kinetic thing , I think what's best about that is that it's instant energy . industrial designer: You don't have to , you know , you can shake it a few times , or whatever . Instead of you don't have to like make sure it's in the right place to charge and . It's the aspects of a computer system which can be seen or otherwise perceived , for example , heard or felt maybe , or by the human user . There's the graphical user interface , which emphasises the use of pictures for output and a pointing device , for example a mouse for input control . I'm not really sure about the pictures that maybe that's on an L_C_D_ screen . user interface: Do you think it's project manager: Yeah , 'cause industrial designer: So I suppose sometime project manager: I'm sorry ? industrial designer: after you . user interface: project manager: because command interface requires you to type textual commands and input at a keyboard , so the numbers are sort of like a keyboard . user interface: So you must , for the graphical user you must need some kind of presentation for the graphics . industrial designer: I s I suppose where   on some buttons you would have like the power would be s some kind of symbol . industrial designer: I know we're not having that , but  a similar thing , user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: you , they have there's a like little picture with a screen with lines across it , which I suppose it's that sort of thing like the , the symbol on the button . industrial designer: But if we're having a simplified display anyway , w that , we probably won't have to focus so much on that . project manager: Yeah , we'll be doing industrial designer: It'll be more the on the numbers and the volume . It'd be more a command interface , and then industrial designer: I suppose we need to think of symbols for like the volume , display , and stuff like that . marketing: So it's just draf graphical for the pointing aspect ? industrial designer: I marketing: The infrared is like , that's considered a project manager:  ? user interface: No I think it's to do with the actual symbols that are on the , that's on the buttons of the remote control , and per marketing: Okay . So when it says pointing device that doesn't include industrial designer: For inp user interface: Well it could be a wee scroller thing , and something could come up on the screen . user interface: But  I think we're gonna go with the command interface anyway , project manager: Yeah . project manager: What do you mean ? user interface: Like I can't think of an example , but Sort of like little pictures rather than project manager: Oh yeah , like how the buttons user interface: Like a little sound . project manager: So , it's a keyboard in the shape of it , right ? user interface: Yeah m perha yeah . user interface: the co  we've decided that the command interface would be the most useful for a remote control .  , the remote control would be cheaper to design , so that we'd have more money in the budget to , target the design area of the interface .  We , we also have to keep in mind when we're designing our , more user-friendly remote control , that a lot of interfaces consist of a clutter of buttons , that , that their functions , colours and forms aren't always helpful . So , that doesn't improve the use of the produ product , so we need to come up with something that's easy to understand . user interface: Does anyone have any questions ? project manager: Do you think that we should keep all the buttons to one same colour , just to keep it , give it a simplistic look . marketing: so and , and we might , depending on what comes out of the design , we might have to stick to just black buttons . user interface: But  project manager: But what about the lighting up effect ? marketing: You mean different colours for the lighting or project manager: well , I thought we had  decided that we would if you touched one of the buttons they'd all light up . industrial designer: So there would have to , have to be some parts maybe transparent around the buttons , or something . user interface: In the phone that I was thinking of as well , when you change the  covers of it , the , the little buttons that actually , you know , that contro control stuff , are behind the rubber . project manager: If it's flat then , like o like on a cellphone or a mobile phone , it's like all very flat , and you just have to sort of press down on these tiny little buttons , but user interface: Yeah . 'Cause if it's just like constructed in the same way as like the front cover of a mobile phone . I don't think it would matter that the buttons were bigger through the , the top casing . I'm sure you could f work it out to fit in the casing , without causing too much difficulty .  , the first one is that there should be a fancy look-and-feel , instead of the current functional look-and-feel . So , I think we've done a lot of talking about that , just with lighting and the buttons and the face-plates . And the recent fashion update , according to fashion-watchers in Paris and Milan , is that fruit and vegetables will be the most important theme for clothes , shoes and furniture .  , also , in contra  in contrast to last year , the feel of the material is expected to be spongy .  So , my personal preferences here ,  of course , as we , we've already talked about the personal face-plates in this meeting , and I'd like to stick to that . The fruits and vegetable themes , I don't know if that's going to work for us . marketing: So maybe we I've seen a lot of purses with olives on them , you know . marketing: But I I think , I think if we stick to T_V_ based , you know , maybe T_V_ shows , or project manager: But they still need to  fit into people's decor though .  we don't have to make something in the shape of a strawberry , but it could have the curves of a strawberry , or something . industrial designer: Or just like you know really make it a quite abstract , if that's fits in more with what we're doing . It doesn't s quite fit in with the trendy well , obviously it does , if that's the current theme . user interface: marketing: industrial designer: But may maybe we could go more directly , I don't know . marketing: One thing I was thinking though is project manager: marketing: I dunno if you all remember from our kickoff meeting , we talked about our favourite animals . marketing: that might be getting , you know , too specific , and we should see what the success of the first face-plates are . marketing: And , did you have any questions ? Pretty straightforward ? project manager: Yeah  industrial designer: Yeah . Have you guys been saving your PowerPoint presentations to the industrial designer: I didn't for the first one . project manager: Does anyone know how to take it out of  , user interface: Just escape I think . industrial designer: Or do we just project manager: But would a backup really be necessary ?  will people just use the battery if there's no , if there's , industrial designer: I think maybe we could just go for the kinetic energy , project manager: if there is backup . industrial designer: I think project manager: There's like no reason why it wouldn't work , right ? industrial designer: yeah . industrial designer: Is everyone happy with that ? marketing: So if it's not working they just have to shake it a bit and that revitalises it ? project manager: Yeah . And that linked in with what buttons we would gonna have , so project manager: Right , and we were going for more simplistic style , right ? industrial designer: Yeah , it was user interface: Yeah . project manager: I think we decided on the pushbuttons , right ? industrial designer: so that's the simple . project manager: Would we need a more advanced one for  the lighting , the interior lighting system ? industrial designer: Yeah possibly . project manager: Yeah ? industrial designer: So , it's probably gonna be the regular chip that we're going to need .  , does this , is this dependent on shape , or what it's made of , or what ? industrial designer: So th I think this is just like gonna be the a very outer case , which we will decide on rubber . I , I I'm sorry , I've lost my  PowerPoint thing , so I can't remember what it's ca it's the component industrial designer: Your screen ? marketing: Think it was called command interface . What's that all about ? user interface: I think that is marketing: project manager: user interface: well we haven't really made any decisions about what we're gonna do about the cluster of button functions , colours and forms , in the in consistent use . Like what what are ideas to combat these problems ? project manager:  user interface: You know how  different interfaces are very different , and can be confusing because because of their difference , and because of the different clusters of buttons that they have . project manager: what are our choices here ? user interface: Well it's just  w where where shall we locate the buttons . What kind of functions wi shall we have ? project manager: You mean like we'll have the numbers of the channels , and we'll have the channel-changer , and volume , and power ? industrial designer: The power . Like I don't know if we should go into like adjusting light levels , things like that , because different televisions will have industrial designer: May yeah . industrial designer: Yeah , it was minima marketing: Do you remember that ? industrial designer: well , it wasn't the l project manager: Yeah , it was hardly ever used really . Yeah , and surely that would be like quite specific to the individual television , user interface: Yeah , each television . I think most of that comes like on the i individual television set itself , user interface: You don't change that often , yeah . industrial designer: doesn't it ? I'm sure it has its own buttons , so you don't necessarily need to have it on remote . project manager: Like we , I don't know if we can make a remote that would be universal to all the different kinds of industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: So we're just going for power , channels , volume , project manager: Volume . Some T_V_s will have the option of like living room style , movie style ,  user interface: Yeah . marketing: and that , they say that's used zero point eight times an hour , which is actually somewhat high . user interface: It w it would seem silly if we'd having anything else , just have an audio button though . project manager: Yeah , user interface: Do you know ? project manager: I don't , I it's , it's a problem with the international  appeal , I think . user interface: But we industrial designer: I've marketing: Yeah I guess that it affects the marketing , 'cause it ,  it is a good sales ploy to say , aren't you annoyed with remote controls that have all these buttons . project manager: Yep , and  the user interface design , so this is where the trendy stuff comes in . user interface: project manager: And , your personal coach will give you the rest of the information of what needs to happen . So , anyone else have something to say ? industrial designer: I just have one question about the whole fruit and vegetable aspect . industrial designer: Are we seeing as that was the most popular thing that came up out of your market research , I thi I think we should keep to that rather than moving to animals or something , because even if that may not seem obvious to us , if that's what the surveys brought out , I think that we should probably go along with that . But you're happy to go ahead with the fruit and veg ? marketing: Now do you guys need want an idea of how many  are you gonna come up with casing ideas ? industrial designer: Y Yeah . user interface: What I What I was thinking what do yous think of this ?  , having the numbers kind of like , not a bunch of grapes , but you know like purple and kind of in a triangle . user interface: That's just industrial designer: We can have a look at those ideas , yeah . marketing: So it's a something that will , you know , appeal to the fifteen to twenty five year olds 