industrial designer: project manager:  almost , there's one more thing I have to get out of the I have to make sure that this attachment will open . Does it come up together or disappear one of them or what ? Ah , we came up together , we're good . Our agenda is , as before , for me to open the meeting , for us to go over the previous minutes , then for the two of you to present your prototype and for you to g  Sarah present the evaluation criteria . And I know what you're all thinking of , oh my ,  because we're only given a forty minute time period to get it all in , including the production evaluation . So the first thing I have to do is close this so that I can get to Where is it ? marketing: Red .  from meeting three , is it alright with you if I don't switch it to show , just use it as is ? 'Cause this way I can more easily flip it . Okay ,  obviously all of us were here for the last meeting , we reviewed the previous minutes before that ,  each of you made your presentations . The market trend of fruit and veg ,  spongy ,  fancy and elegant more than technologically innovative and that more than easy .  we would use plastic with a rubber casing , I think was the consensus , powered by kinetic energy .  looking like a scroll , but it's really a push button technology , excuse my spelling  that was actually in use , that is  behind the scenes is push button which we  according to Kate have a very good  grasp on doing that in production .  we decided that separate fashionable covers covering your fruit and veg might be a separate product that could be suggested to management .  and as suggested  yellow with black buttons with the company logo , a slogan and image might be a good idea based on the requirements that have been provided to us .  we did have a few production issues and coordination of the various bits and we had some conflict of ideas and cost constraints and we ran out of time . user interface: Yeah , well you see , each made one , we didn't have enough yellow dough . user interface: It is  curved , easy to hold , hand-held , nice and small with big easy buttons . This is like a scroll , but they are push buttons and they enter takes you into the different menus .  this is on off switch , 'cause I think we do need that , and I think it gives it a nice balance . user interface:  as for what it's actually made of well the function of these buttons is up , down , left and right in the different menus . The main feature of it is just a simple design , simple , lack of  buttons all over the place .  material , I think Kate's gonna tackle that quite a bit , but I think we have two different options , because we did make a another one , which wa  is in the shape of banana , it's just if you can imagine this as yellow with black buttons , like just like this but in the shape of a banana , project manager: user interface: which is also nice and easy to hold and feels good and has a similar sort of scroll push button technology , just a slightly different design . project manager: user interface: Also with on off switch and infrared  I had envisioned it in hard smooth plastic . So like  well , I dunno , what's it like ? I guess like an existing remote control , but molded and smooth . Whereas otherwise we'd thought , like with this one or mix and match , just we were gonna see what you thought , the  a more spongy rubber cover with spongy buttons . So we have the two options we can follow , either the smooth hard plastic or the spongy rubber , depending on cost restraints . user interface: Well colour , I think I definitely have a preference towards bright yellow with black buttons , because that's the company colours , but if anybody's got any other suggestions , I'm quite willing to consider them as well . So , it just depends what you think about these ideas and if I'm yeah , maybe , Kate , you better say what you think about them . We're not absolutely sure about a combination of the two , but it can be either of those .  and as for the the actual components  ,  Steph just said this is a quite a cheap device to manufacture .  the  the diode that actually does the  infrared is at the end , it's the stalk of the banana , or it's just the thing at the end of this version . user interface: I thin as for as for the fruit or organic theme , I guess this one is obviously fruit shaped . This one has no obvious connections to fruit , but because it's round and molded , it kinda makes you think sort of organic , touchy-feely , kiddie , it's more like yeah , you'd expect it to be like a child's sorta toy remote control instead of a real one , which I quite like that sort of image . 'Cause it's very big and chunky and child-friendly and industrial designer: Would you care to examine the prototypes , see how they feel in the hand ? user interface: Hold them , you see , you know . Curvature , is it to your liking ? project manager: Oh I see , the on-off's in the back . project manager: I could see this thing , unless it's reinforced , having a problem with the you know user interface: Breaking , project manager: yeah . Well you see , that's why hard plastic would be quite a good thing for it , because then it'd just be rigid . user interface: Yeah , we really like we really like that design , marketing: It's really kind of a user interface:  it looks just like a logo , that arrangement of the keys . user interface: just up , down , left and right , and we think we could make that quite a good feature . user interface:  it that's what it makes me think of , mobile phones , marketing: industrial designer: user interface: I was try I was thinking , moving your thumb like this , what does that remind me of ? industrial designer: And it's a very simple design , marketing: Yeah . marketing: It's also in terms of  being lost it's it's quite it looks quite different . marketing: You know , I I d I have several four remotes , and they all look the same until you get up close and you have to user interface: Yeah . user interface:  the thing is we do need to develop our technology of  actually how to program the menus and what sort of , you know , text box is gonna appear at the bottom of the screen , marketing: This is going to be a heavily interactive evaluation , and the method here is to evaluate the new remote control in terms of the user requirements and the hot trends introduced by the marketing department . So , this means we're going to go over the priorities that were raised by  the consumers a as well as incorporate all of our insight into this  evaluation exercise . So I'm going to go and use the whiteboard , and I've made a list of criteria to look at , and so I'm gonna I'm gonna leave this up as the last thing , but for the evaluation it's going to be one is true and seven is false , going over these different criteria , so one true seven false and I'm gonna now use the  the board . So  fancy , technologically innovative , easy to use , trendy , buttons , excess buttons , good buttons , ugly , sellable , and other . And in fact I hope that  you all introduce some additional terms , because these are things that  have been brought up , some of them seem rather close , user interface: Yeah , what about price , is that gonna go on there as well ? Price of materials . user interface: Not that we actually know anything about it , industrial designer: user interface: but we can we can pretend . marketing:  okay , so wha how do we feel in terms of is this fancy ? user interface: It depends what what you mean by fancy really , 'cause when I think of fancy , I think of it's got lots of extra sort of fripperies and , you know , like baroque curliness and which marketing: user interface: I'd call these quite  minimalist , industrial designer: Yes , a plain , simple , clean design . user interface: simple and plain , but  I do see what it is heavily reliant on appearance instead of pure functionality , marketing: user interface: I think just maybe we need a different word other than fancy , I'd say maybe aesthetic . marketing: Yeah , no these aren't the exact terms that the  user interface: like stylish or aesthetic . We're gon let's use elegant , although the the the people , the word on the street is is user interface: Fancy . N that  user interface: Did you just break the pen ? project manager: marketing: yeah  the  is fancy . we'll call it E_F_  , do we do we think that perhaps and maybe we should say the yellow ? Should we go with the yellow in terms of I think that's a really superior user interface: Yeah , I think we n we need to marketing: they're both user interface: they're both yellow with black buttons , it's just that we didn't have any more dough to represent  that , marketing: Yeah . user interface: So what we re really need to decide is whether we want the actual banana shape or just a a purely blob or some sort of abstraction in between the two marketing: Yeah . user interface: that isn't that is more curved , like a banana , but that isn't actually recognisable as a banana , you know , with the grooves and the stalk and stuff , marketing: As a banana . marketing: I think that many of us are abstract enough to look at the yellow one and say we'll call it the banana . marketing: And of the two I really like I m I like the banana , project manager: The chunk . user interface: So that's maybe not something we have to decide just right now , is it . Unless do you guys wanna evaluate both ? project manager: I think between the two , somewhere between the two is true . industrial designer: Yeah , I'd project manager: It's more true than false , about a two . user interface: industrial designer: I d I don't think that's what we're aiming at with this concept . industrial designer: I think we're using simple components that are gonna be robust but not particularly innovative . user interface: Well , maybe only a two or a three then , 'cause it's no we still haven't decided about specific sponginess or specific industrial designer: We have the worry about how robust it will be if it's it's curved as a banana but spongy . industrial designer: I think user interface: Yeah , I don't really think that's gonna work , industrial designer: yeah . Sellable ,  quirky , you know , something people industrial designer: Yeah , I think they're different , aren't they ? user interface: Well it is quite it is quite quirky I think . And I was I was thinking of other things  in terms of  could we say it's cost saving ? With the user interface: Oh , we also need tho think about the energy . user interface: Yeah , but we haven't completely developed that side of it yet , so we're not completely sure about that , marketing: Well user interface: but yeah . marketing: Anything else ? Including price , do you have any idea about price or other features ? industrial designer: Well I think our instinct is that it should be pretty cheap to develop . So true one or should I go to two or three ? industrial designer: I'd put it at one I think , but I dunno , what do you user interface: I would say maybe a two , marketing: Okay . user interface: 'cause we still we need to  get somebody in who is good with the programming for the menus and things . industrial designer: Yeah , true , user interface:  it's not just like  it's not like ev you know , on a normal chunky remote every button res  means something different , project manager: Yeah , that's not a cheap thing to get . user interface: whereas this one has only got the four buttons and they all they mean everything , depending on what menu you're in . marketing:  other ? Anything else you guys can thing of ? And I'm gonna actually change a couple of these so then I'm gonna instead of ugly I'm gonna say it's attractive and then make that true , so that user interface: Yeah . Yeah , be you know , user interface: As for marketing: so it doesn't ruin the polarity . user interface: see if we're technologically innovative , I'd say it is quite innovative , because there aren't really many that have this menu idea instead of all the extra buttons . user interface:  I know we're not doing anything involving internet or speech recognition but but we are at the upper end of the push button market . Well if you g  let me know if if any of these  if you if you all can think of any other  thing to change here if you th if you think I should change the innovative or add other features . We're a little over halfway through the meeting marketing: So project manager: and the next big thing is the finance . And we're going to raise what's called a sp a spreadsheet that they provided to me . project manager:  what's a hand dynamo ? industrial designer: That was the crank , wind-up crank on the side . Yeah , simple , 'cause we've just got push buttons , so we can do it all with simple which is the ch should be the cheapest . project manager: Okay , the case will be uncurved and flat or a single curve or a double curve . It's industrial designer: Yeah , that that one is single curve , project manager: that's   one . industrial designer: isn't it ?  do we have project manager: And that's user interface: What does double curved mean , I don't understand . Yeah , I do I don't think we need that for either of them , user interface: Oh no , we don't need that . industrial designer: you can do a banana in single curve , project manager: No , user interface: Single-curved , I'd say . And did we say plastic ? industrial designer: Yeah , can we do some what ifs , 'cause it may project manager: Yeah . industrial designer:  I I still quite like the idea of combining plastic and rubber myself , marketing: One , two , three , four , five , six . We'll come back , if we can , to the rubber being added at the moment , that's where we are . industrial designer: Do we need to say how many buttons , or project manager: Whoops , don't want that , not yet .  industrial designer: or d is it just one ? project manager: No , it just says push button interface . project manager: And the buttons Wha what is the buttons made of , rubber ? industrial designer:  they'll be rubber , yep . industrial designer: Actually , does tha does special material mean that plastic is not a special material ? 'Cause I think they can be plastic . industrial designer: It's just one , isn't it ? project manager:  we only need one of them .  and the total cost has been calculated as nine Pounds twenty out of the twelve and a half we were allowed . industrial designer: Do you do you need to double click on that to open it ? project manager: Yeah . That's the only Excel document that will be in there , so it's there for all of us . Okay , so , are they under twelve fifty ? Yes , go to the project evaluation , next slide . project manager: means , of having whiteboard , the digital pens and all that kind of good things . project manager: user interface: Yeah well , 'cause  it's so hard to describe what you mean just with words and pointing at photographs and saying , well we quite want this , but imagine it rounder . So much better just to go and , you know , this is it , this is what we want . project manager:  did we find any new ideas ? marketing: I think with the marketing element of  fruit shaped I  I that really opened my eyes . Good work as a design team , industrial designer: Yeah , I think we're a good team actually . user interface: because we industrial designer: I'm not sure all the wires are really great though . marketing: I can give you a number , industrial designer: hang on , Oh we haven't heard . marketing:  it's  the average evaluation score is one point eight eight , so it means w you know , I can I can spell it out . There were six true or ones , four  pardon me , two s almost true or close to true , so that was four points , and then  one false , seven points , so seventeen divided by nine we're between one and two . I would say that's ex excellent in terms of  ho how much we adhere to the ideals of the  market place . And the the only false one is because we've chosen to keep a simple old technology , marketing: To maintain old technology , exactly . user interface: which if it works perfectly well I see no point in improving on if it works , marketing: Yeah , yeah . project manager: And we've therefore we have to do the final questionnaire and do the meeting summary , I have a final report to present ,  and then we're done .  one thing I wa I wanna do is save everything in the right files , because I don't think everything is saved 