project manager:  Will you guys first with your prototype  before we get to the good news ? industrial designer: Yeah , there's good news ? project manager:  industrial designer: Oh . user interface:  one's based on the banana , one's based on the tomato project manager: Tomato ? What tomato ? user interface: and the other one is st marketing: industrial designer: project manager: I don't recall a tomato . Okay , so this is the  non to non  no buttons one , or as  few buttons as possible , project manager: If you do need buttons , you can flip it over , and there's some there , project manager: Okay . project manager: Okay , so the buttons would be like , you know individual users , or user interface: Yeah .  can I have project manager: Well I like the feel of it , I like the feel of it . industrial designer: marketing: user interface: That's that's already got its stand that one . user interface: It does also lie flat , but that's the that yellow stand there represents the the charging stand . project manager: Okay , nice and obvious there , user interface:  yeah , that marketing: user interface: Well , we did think of that . user interface: Yeah , if it's standing up it's it's on there , but also we're gonna have the company name on the front , which is the little black kind of line in the middle . These are the s two scroll ones which we thought could be channel up and down and volume up and down . We n were weren't sure about putting them there , because  i it's it kind of could get bashed . project manager: Where you're , yeah ,  were you're holding it kind of user interface: Yeah . Well , if you hold it , you can you all can hold it , is it does actually feel quite ergonomic , project manager:  that's a speaker at the top , so you can speak into it like a little walkie-talkie as well for speak recognition . user interface: industrial designer: A a more friendly type of project manager: Okay , so so Barney the banana . It's to  induce more television watching I suppose or project manager: Ah excellent , just what we need . project manager: 'Kay and user interface: So are there any  improvements or issues or industrial designer: It won't stand . industrial designer: project manager:  unfortunately the unit we are currently going to produce minus the extra scroll buttons ,  it's gonna cost us fourteen point six Euros . project manager: So we have to industrial designer: What's on the  on the left ? project manager: rea Sorry , I've accidentally highlighted somehow  . So basically ,  in order to save our two Euros  I was thinking that we could have essentially the same shape , but just have it flattened . project manager: Yeah ,  it's already got a kind of cool shape , so but it wouldn't have to be curved sort of in and out . industrial designer: W why is the  double curved two of them ? project manager: Oh , good point . Yeah , this is double-curve , project manager: That's sort of curve in and out . project manager: No , I think it means double curved as in  user interface: Like an S_ shape . project manager: like  a single curve on that bottom half , and the double curved would be if it was that similar curve upward . project manager: I don't think that counts as a curve , I think that's just a shape . industrial designer: got two of them project manager: Yeah , and why why I've got it two , I don't know , I can't seem to select any more however . project manager: It's meant to be one , yeah , I don't know why I put two in there , industrial designer: Okay . project manager: but  Hold on till I find it , I think this shift button might be stuck again . project manager:  okay , so that would take away three , which would give us marketing: Should industrial designer: project manager: Oh that's fine . project manager: industrial designer: Maybe if you click back in that bottom right cell , where you're starting from , and then use the arrow keys . industrial designer: Does that work ? project manager: Yeah , I know , that just extends it as well . project manager: No , it's 'cause the  the shift button's stuck , or something . industrial designer: Is it the other shift button maybe ? marketing: Should we ask Meli project manager: marketing: Should we ask our technical expert Melissa ? project manager: No that's fine . Right , so that's finances and I dunno what we what could we reckon we could add ?  user interface: Well maybe we could add something , but maybe if project manager: Well I suppose that's our that's that's our design that we've got . Yeah , if we're happy with the design there's no point in spending money , if we don't have to . user interface: But if there is anything you think we've missed out there , then , you know , feel free to add it . Maybe  obviously it would be bigger so there might be more space for the the slogan on the front , project manager: Yeah yeah . project manager:  room for creativity , were we happy with that ? user interface: W I think we were very creative . marketing: Yeah , these are new ideas , like glow-in-the-dark or something like that . We discussed all the new ideas , but of course we couldn't reach any proper goals , we couldn't use these , but we h we are using these scroll buttons like this . industrial designer:  so let's talk about our bonuses and the raises we're getting for this , right . project manager: That's it ,  I think another couple of days holiday pay might be well in order for all of you . industrial designer: marketing: So project manager: Does it go back in , does it ? Reusable . industrial designer: Oh ok project manager: It didn't bother to tell me that on this marketing: S industrial designer: marketing: project manager: thing . user interface: It's this as well , sorry , we forgot to mention it'll be made out of kind of a rubbery latex , new material that we've got . So of course this is will be a team work , w we together have to decide wha what rating we will give to this product and everything . marketing: We will give the rating to this product based on the user requirements , whether it meets the user requirements or not , this product . Then trends , whether it is as fashion trends or not ? Means because we have already stated that people do prefer fashionable things nowadays . As we have already discussed that our company is quite in the market , not only in terms of providing quality products , not only in pro providing latest technologies , but also in terms of providing environmental s user interface: Sorry . marketing: So but also in terms of providing environmental safe products ,  yeah like  keeping  keeping in mind all the safety issues . project manager: The board working again , is it ? industrial designer: Do we have the  the marker for the board ? project manager: marketing: project manager:  . user interface: marketing: So these are the three crite criterias for our evaluation of our product . I I will first I would like to have your views , what do you think whether it meets all user requirements or not ? user interface:  I think Yeah , it did . marketing: S user interface: It had all the basic buttons that they needed as well as the  new technology that people said they wanted . project manager: When the user requirement is essentially just to operate the T_V_ , user interface: Does it work ? project manager: so yeah , user interface: Yeah . user interface: Seven is good , yeah , isn't it ? I can't True or false ? No sorry tr one is true . marketing: But I think highest ranking is seven , or one ? project manager: No it's it's like true is one end , and false is the oth industrial designer: No that's false . marketing:  d you can you can tell on on the like project manager: marketing: I think she has given her views on the basis of design , because she was our i Interface Expert . marketing: But you can give your views based on technology , whether the technology meets the requirements of the customers or not ? industrial designer:  yeah , I think i it might even exceed it  . marketing: And what about  you , Brian ? project manager: Oh , I'll go for a one .  for me personally it is everything fine , it may be having good design , it may be  meeting all the requirements of the customers like technology-wise , price-wise , but there is one thing which limits the customers , like we are having only two , three designs , like we are having one banana design and the other one is orange , industrial designer: project manager: Yeah th marketing: and user interface:  yellow . industrial designer: project manager: marketing: But if a person doesn't like banana , or orange , you are limiting him . project manager: Come on that was the tha marketing: No , don't buy our product , because we are l we like this only . user interface: Is that no is that not trends ? marketing:  no ,  personally as a Marketing Expert I don't believe that , project manager: marketing: because whatever companies they launch their products in the shape of fruits , they give a range of products , a range of shapes , like if we see , look at the smallest thing , toffee chocolates , they give a variety of different things . marketing: Some children like to buy banana shape , some apple shape , some even pineapple shape , some orange shape . But in electronics , I think , it's not q always quite so  you don't always have so many choices as with chocolates . project manager: user interface: I think , you know , if you're going to buy a T_V_ maybe a company'll have That you're going to choose from , a company'll have two or three choices , but they're different designs . project manager: user interface: No ,   obviously your opinion , industrial designer: user interface: I'm just trying to Okay . industrial designer: marketing: Yeah , on an average we can think three , four sevenths , maybe . Three or four ? project manager: marketing: no sorry , industrial designer: marketing: it should be project manager: Six . user interface: What are we doing ? industrial designer: What are we doing ? marketing: No sorry , sorry , sorry , sorry , we are doing a very wrong thing . user interface: Adding them up ? industrial designer: We're gonna average them ? marketing: Yeah , yeah , we are taking everything , industrial designer: Okay . industrial designer: Can you explain what you want us to write there ? marketing: Sorry ? industrial designer: How it how conforms to the current trends ? marketing: Yeah , again the the fashion trends , this also like whether it it will be fashionable to have these products in the  as a fruit shape or something . user interface: Well  going on  the specifications that we had , that fruit and vegetables are quite popular , and that people like something that is good to look at and not many buttons , I would give it  , well , because it's hard to make a fruit good to look at , that that looks cool , you know , project manager: user interface: so I would actually give it a three . As far as the  technology it its' got the latest trends in speech technology , but it's missing the screen , as we said ,  but it does have the push-buttons , or the scroll-buttons ,  but it doesn't have that fancy solar power or the the vibrating energy mechanism . project manager: Yeah , I am sort of pret  Just the fruit does me in ,   it might user interface: industrial designer: marketing: project manager: it might be trendy to some , but I'm just not swallowing the fruit , so  user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: marketing: project manager:  also  I would have liked to have seen the L_C_D_ screen in it .  personally I wi  I think that in terms of trends , these products are quite good , like , these products are in fruit shape , because that wha people now our fashion trend shows that people like everything all f everything that is being advertised , like clothes , shoes , and everything is being advertised in the form of fruits and vegetables , or getting them or showing some association with them . And the second thing , now people don't want any complicated or bulky products and ours is quite simple and quite handy . industrial designer: Well , I think it's the the remote control conforms to the the company strategy . Pretty much kept to the company strategy , so I would go for a a one , as we not only kept it , but we were limited by user interface:  . marketing: Yeah , and me also , like , this product me  me  me  this meets all company strategy like our product should be as per customers' requirement , as per latest technology , and it should be environmental safe 