Anyway , it's the meeting's gonna follow more or less the same structure as last time , so we'll go round each of you in turn and you can give your presentations on what you've been up to .  and at the end of that we need to discuss what you've come up with , so that we can make a decision on the key remote control concepts , so that's we need to know about the components' properties , materials , the user interface and any trends that the Marketing Expert has been watching . industrial designer: so I haven't made a PowerPoint presentation , project manager: You haven't made a PowerPoint , okay . marketing: industrial designer: okay , so basically I'll start off by  I thought I'll use the whiteboard because we have so many different options and what we can do is that we can start   rubbing off the options that we do not require and putting in the options that  are m or highlighting or underlining them or something like that . industrial designer: Okay , so  I'll start again with a brief introduction to connect that anyway brief introduction to the insides of a remote control project manager: Yeah . Okay , so w what you see here is so this is the outside of the remote , right ? If you open it , you have a circuit board here , right , project manager: This basically sends information to a tr  transistor here , which then  sends the information to an L_E_D_ device here . If you flip the printed circuit board , and this is th the most important point here , project manager: industrial designer:  everything else is kind of Okay , so if you flip the circuit board , this is what it looks like . So you see for example a particular button attaches to a particular place on the P_C_B_ and  project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: on pressing this button I a circuit completes , the information goes to the chip , which is somewhere here and the chip that tra then translates the code into an infra infrared radiation , which goes goes out through there . So  the important point that I read over the website was  that the configurations of these printed circuit circuit boards  are quite cheap to make , you can ge get them printed as you want to , project manager: industrial designer: so w we can have a configuration  irrespective of the cost , the way we want to have . industrial designer: So they can be simple which is like  the normal batteries in  our  the cells , yeah ? project manager: Yeah . industrial designer:  thes these are the kind different kind of batteries that the company makes , right ? So . industrial designer: So  I don't know if even if you want to consider this , user interface: industrial designer: but these are the different things that the company makes , so th they'll they'll project manager: Okay . industrial designer: since  they'll come internally from the company , they'll be eas  cheaper ,  all these options . marketing: You could make the hand dynamo into an exercise bike , and then people could exercise whilst watching T_V_ . project manager: And charging their remote , marketing: Yeah , and stop worrying about the whole R_S_I_ from the remote thing , 'cause that's just project manager: yeah . project manager: user interface: So what was what was this k ka industrial designer: The the kinetic energy one is  that e   they are usually modern watches , since our hand keeps moving , it keeps the watch ticking . industrial designer: But I dunno i if it is a good idea for a remote control , because it'll just lie there for a long while sometimes . industrial designer: But as soon as you pick it up it moves and then again it  re recharges or something . Okay  so I'll list things and then we can come back and discuss what what we think from  everybody's perspective . They can be basically the shape of the cases , they can be flat , they can be curved with  one-sided curved and one side flat , project manager: industrial designer: These are the three options , right ?  user interface:  you mean this would be like the the overall shape of the remote control , yeah , industrial designer: Yeah , would it be flat on both the sides , would be curved from one side , or whatever user interface: industrial designer:  there were different kind of supplements available ,  like it can be in plastic , rubber , wood , or titanium , right ? project manager: industrial designer: so  we can use even  a certain titanium is also used  in the company to make   some space design equipment , so it's kind of   it'll be probably nicer to use , because it relates to the overall image of the company , but  it cannot be used on a double curved surface . So we can have push-buttons , like most remotes do and our company is an expert in making push-buttons . industrial designer: So , and they have they can even have an an integrated  push-button inside the scrolling thing . So this is something that has been recently developed by the company ,  in the last decade , so not too recent . industrial designer: The various electronic options are   so th this concerns firs first of all the the chips I I showed you at  so there's there's a chip behind this one , right ? The P_C_B_ is  inexpensive , so we can put put in  whatever we want , but the various integrated circuit options are , we have either a simple one project manager: industrial designer:  okay , so the good thing about  wh wh why why we would want to use advanced u why we might want to use advanced is that L_C_D_s can only come with the advanced chip .  besides this in electr under electronics  also the company has started making a sample sender , which is did not explained what i what it was , but I'm guessing that  so they have a sample sender and a sample speaker . So I'm guessing that  the sample speaker is probably something like   you know , as soon as you press a button , it it   give gives you feedback , one five or whatever . industrial designer:  and  I dunno whether sample sender sender has to do something with voice recognition or not , but anyway . Okay , so th that's that's basically now now  I think that  we can integrate   you know ,  the user interface  and  the marketing things in that , keep  taking out things from this and  underlining things that are important , yeah . project manager: What are you , PowerPoint , or user interface:  I have some PowerPoint , yeah . marketing: project manager: Do you think these pens can give you cancer of the hand ? user interface: 'Kay . project manager: Some sort of radiation ? industrial designer: marketing: No it's got its little camera in there , plug it in .  to be honest actually , I mentioned some some of the things which which could fit on the on the this talk  this time , I m I mentioned them already in the previous talk . user interface: So  yeah , this time  I might not have them on the slides but I I can just mention them aw again . So  I thought  I would also include the definition of user interface  so it's the aspects of a of of a computer system or programme which can be seen  by the user  and and which  the mechanisms that the user uses to control its operation and input data . So this would p includes things like shape and size and buttons and  voice recognition as well , and colour , and so on . user interface:   the method I employed this time was a again having a look to related products and mainly on the internet and then  analyse them  from the point of view of user fen friendliness and also  whether their appearance was was pleasant . So in in the case of many user interfaces , they're just so full of buttons that it's actually  hard to find the ones you you really  want to use and  and it's just confusing , it takes y know time to learn . project manager: user interface:  well the picture is not very clear , but as you can see , there are actu oi , oh oh oh , project manager: user interface: sorry for that . Actually of the of all these I personally p prefer this one , because it's it's the smallest and and with with least  with the smallest number of buttons as well . Okay , there is a we can  include voice recognition and  it allows i it's possible to record eighty different voice samples on it . And  our own manufacturing division ha has  designed a new   programmable speech   sorry  speaker unit I guess it's it should be . user interface:  and this means that  once   it it it comes together with a voice recognition , but it's once once the   gadget  recognises  the voice of the speaker , there can be a  pre-programmed answer , for example , you can pick up the remote control and say something to it like hello and it says some hello and your name or whatever . user interface: So  this is also one of the n dev new developments which we might consider if we wanted to include . industrial designer:  sorry ,  can you go back for a second ?   are you sure wha what this means , a spinning wheel with the L_C_ display ?  oh yeah are th project manager: It's like the like you said , no ? The scroll scroll wheel . marketing: Yeah , you can't user interface: No no , the scroll button is a different thing . I wasn't completely sure myself , but I think it's just like  it's it's a wheel , it's like not separate buttons . user interface: But I'm I'm not really sure whether whether you can really turn it round , marketing: G yeah , no , you can . user interface: it's like you press this or this or industrial designer:  it's the iPod  kind of  marketing: It's like it's like where you you know how you have your your mouse , and y you go round and i it's kind of like that and you spin round project manager: -huh . marketing: I like the the wheels that click on the side you you get 'em much slower , project manager: marketing: Do you know , if you're lookin if you're th scrolling through the A_ to Z_ of your music and you're looking for something at T_ , then it's a lot faster than the wheel , project manager: Okay , we decided to include voice recognition , so to have the standard  major buttons like on , off ,  ch the channels and and then  volume and then the rest would be a menu on the screen .  and I I also thought  if we want to keep it small and nice  and actually I I quite like the idea of a scroll a scrolling button , I thought it could be for for voice like , I dunno , it  like on a  i like it used to be on Walkmans or something . There is  I think there is no reason why we couldn't use something like this for for the remote control . marketing: Okay , I've put the copy of the presentation in  the project manager: The project documents .  so what I did was to search the internet to come up with market trends and you know what users are gonna be wanting in the the near future . Now , the first aspect is apparently twice as important as the second aspect , which is twice as important as the third a aspect . marketing: you know , people want something new , something technologically innovative and different , so the whole idea with the L_C_D_s and the spinning and the colours and the voice recognition is quite like , quite the thing to go for . industrial designer: So   maybe  as you're discussing things , is it okay if we just  keep highlighting things here ? marketing: So project manager: Yeah , yeah , sure . So   so it project manager: That's over on the interface , industrial designer: yeah , project manager: if if you could put industrial designer: so probably voice recognition is is kind of important , right ? project manager: Yeah . industrial designer:  and an project manager: And maybe the L_C_D_ and spinning industrial designer: yeah . Okay , I I have a point about L_C_D_ , project manager: so that means we need an advanced thing . W  L_C_D_s are basically for feedback , right , to the user who's pressing buttons , project manager: industrial designer: and the feedback can come through television itself , so do we need an L_C_D_ on the remote ? marketing: Depends how fast your television runs , really , don't don't you think ?  we've got one of those  Telewest boxes industrial designer:  . marketing: and you put the number in the remote and then you wait and then it goes to the T_V_ and then you wait , and then it comes , so i it actually takes quite a long time . And if you get the number in wrong , then it's a bit of a pain , project manager:  . marketing: so I think , you know , a screen on the remote would probably cut down your time on that . project manager: It it is also quite nice though to to have something here so you don't interrupt the picture on the screen , marketing: You know ? Yeah . project manager: so if you're watching something industrial designer: That's true , yeah , that's also marketing: And i it would be like  if you could make it integrate with the T_V_ then it could come up with new information about what's on , and you could just see that on the remote rather than project manager: Yeah . marketing: But  I think maybe a way to do it would be a similar way to how you have your mobile phone , you know , like you have the slidey ones and you have the flippy ones and then the screen's protected so it doesn't actually get scratched . marketing: So you can have like what looks like a normal remote control , you know or like a minimalist remote control . marketing: So you got your buttons one to nine , your on and off and your volume on that industrial designer:  right . marketing: and then if you want to mess about with it , you flip it open and , project manager: And then you can flip it open . industrial designer: So now we seem to have a consensus that L_C_D_s are definitely the way to go because of style and project manager: Yeah , I think so . marketing: But that would be a good way to to get in the whole  R_S_I_ issue in there , industrial designer: Right . marketing: because  if you think most people use the remote control with their right hand ha right hands project manager: marketing: so you wanna you curve it so that it's suitable for use with the right hand .  project manager: Something a bit squishy and marketing: Yeah , industrial designer: Yeah , we we have marketing: but  y you have to user interface: So it could be like a rubbery industrial designer: we have rubber , user interface: yeah , -huh . industrial designer: but there is a problem that I forgot to discuss with the  with using marketing: Well I suppose you wouldn't get a remote  an electric shock off your remote control if it was made of rubber . project manager: Yeah , and it'd help if you drop it , it protects it as well . industrial designer: So if if we use  latex cases , they won't allow us to use solar cells , as an energy source that is the constraint , project manager: -huh . industrial designer: so  we could use titanium , wood or plastic  or  project manager: Or if we want to use the the latex , then we have to go with one of the other  power things . marketing: If it's made of rubber you could get the kinetic energy fairly easily there , project manager: From from bouncing it . industrial designer: Or or curved at one end and flat on the top , because I I'm not sure if it is flat on both both the sides , then ho how much easy would it be to reach for buttons , etcetera . marketing: It it depends on the whole ergonomics of it , you know , it's like how you put your hands so y it's the least movement basically . Yeah , singe single side curved or double side curved does not say too much , does it ? project manager: -huh . industrial designer: It  marketing: No , I d I don't think it makes a lot of difference . I I have one of those s slidey phones and  the back is essentially straight , project manager:  . industrial designer:  I think  project manager: Yeah , 'cause the marketing: Besides , you have four sides to a thing , so  does curved one side mean one side is straight project manager: Yeah . marketing: and , you know curved two sides means the whole thing is just a big curvy p thing ? industrial designer: Right . industrial designer: because  according to the information that I have , I think  the onl only options that we have with the case is are these three . industrial designer: It does not say anything about  whether technically , you know , this this stuff is available at all .  it's it's more about the protecting the L_C_D_ , which I think is where it came from . marketing: But no , my research didn't tell me anything , which is why we have all the pictures , industrial designer: marketing: 'cause I had nothing better to do with my time . project manager: Anything else ? What've we got ? marketing:  combine style with a level of functionality ,  beauty and practicality and a thing of beauty and p function . marketing: Okay ? user interface: Thanks project manager: Looking at what we've got , we we want an L_C_D_ display with a spinning wheel . Let's let's try to r rub off things and project manager: Yeah , rub off some of those . industrial designer: yeah , so  user interface: industrial designer: hand dynamos are definitely out , right ? You you got a wind dynamo , yeah . project manager: it's not that's not streamlined and sexy , having a having a wind up .  kinetic energy does seem to have some kind of   appeal , project manager: I think tha industrial designer: but  it's marketing: It's about the practicality of it really , isn't it ? You know ? industrial designer: Yeah . As against a watch , which constantly keeps moving , marketing:  if industrial designer: this this thing will have to be tapped every time , which which might be very frustrating for the user . industrial designer: Kinetic energy it needs I don't have too much technical information on that , project manager: Pr presumably if they're suggesting it , then we could use it . Okay , let's keep it option  keep an option , project manager: I'd I'd keep it on .  the flat co completely flat case is definitely out , right ? It has to be at least curved from one side , yeah . project manager: We don't want that user interface: Yeah project manager: it's no it's not not vegetable . Wood , do you think wood will be a good idea ? project manager: user interface: N wood is I can't n how do you   you can't keep it really small  industrial designer:  . Because you need to you n you need to put all the technology in , so  if the case you add the case and it it becomes a bit bulky industrial designer: Yeah if if it is really thin if it is really thin it it's likely to break , user interface: wi - yeah . project manager: Yeah , and given that we're we're looking at more spongy material preferences , I ha would think maybe rubber or plastic is more user interface: Yeah . marketing: It's it's not a practical  it's it's alright for a table , but for a remote control , you know . industrial designer: Right , so  the the push-buttons is is our expertise  in the industry , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: but  it seems to be out of trend , you know , nobody seems to be marketing: You have to have some push-buttons , don't you ? user interface: Yeah , but you  I think for for the channel numb  channel numbers you still need them , wouldn't you ? project manager: user interface: Yeah , so for channel numbers but industrial designer: Oh , if if we have L_C_D_ displays , that opens up a whole world , you know , if you have an L_C_D_ display , then  you can select almost everything on the L_C_D_ display . user interface: But I th yeah but I think the L_C_D_ display is kind of yeah , it's faster project manager: Just for fast user interface: with a m yeah and w if we dis and when we s  discussed that we might like this flipping open thing , then  y you can use it as a normal remote control , marketing: industrial designer: Right . user interface: but if you do want to use L_C_D_ , then you flip it open , marketing: user interface: but it's it it's more time-consuming . marketing: I think this is going back to the the graph at the beginning that I made , where , you know , the buttons that people use all the time , you want buttons for them and everything else menu-driven . Do you do we enumerate everything from zero to nine ? Or do we have just  channel plus , channel minus , just to just to scroll ? user interface: No , no ,   we we definitely need the the numbers , industrial designer: The numbers . project manager: Do we need them on as buttons or do we need them as L_C_D_ ? industrial designer: Or on the L_C_D_ we can , you know marketing: G yeah , user interface: Yeah , I would say buttons , marketing: I would think buttons , yeah . marketing: It's it's the industrial designer: So  marketing: I think the thing is , so if someone just wants to turn on their T_V_ and put on a channel , then it should be easier to use than any other remote , user interface: I project manager:  . marketing: and then if someone wants to , you know , change the contrast on their T_V_ and they should be able to do that and it should be accessible , industrial designer: Alright . marketing:  there's a limit to how much the biggest techno geek can spend fiddling with the T_V_ , I think is the the the issue there . industrial designer: Okay , so buttons definitely in but oh shall we  try to draw a prec  project manager: I think that's what you guys are gonna do next , industrial designer:  okay . industrial designer: Right , so  what about the the scrolling  ? user interface: Yeah but n I I'm not completely  completely clear  I yeah , about the spinning wheel . So I think it it doesn't make sense to have both like a scrolling and spinning thing , marketing: E either or user interface: it's  you can al include everything in the spinning if you marketing: G yeah . user interface: yeah , yeah , marketing: I would say the s the s the spinning goes at a high speed to th to the scrolling wheel , user interface: in that case . marketing: so you have to decide whether you you know , you want to be going so fast or not . But  the the thing with this whole if y you're planning on making it out of rubber , on the basis that it's spongy , then I'm not sure how well a scrolling wheel would work . industrial designer:   project manager: But if you've got a if if you've got a flipped thing , effectively it's something that's curved on one side and flat on the other side , but you folded it in half . user interface: Ah , but  you can marketing: Yeah , but y your spinning wheel tends to go to one side . industrial designer: I'm not sure it'll be a good idea to construct the whole thing out of rubber .  i it project manager: No , I think it's just the casing rubber on the outside . user interface: Yeah , I  I think so too ,  the case would be marketing: You want an outside of rubber user interface: yeah the case would be rubber and the the buttons , marketing: and then open it up and industrial designer: Or or at the corners , edges , just the edges covered by rubber or something like that . marketing: 'Cause I know like we're going back to iPods again n the whole spinning wheel , but I have like a you know , obviously my iPod's not made of rubber , but then I have a little rubber case that goes over the top of it industrial designer: Right , right . industrial designer: Right , project manager: user interface: industrial designer: okay , so so that gives us a more trendy look as well . Yeah , and  we're going more for the trends than for the usability anyway , right ? project manager: And  colours can be provided with the case rather than  but we still need to te think about the colour of our remote as such , you know , just keep it black , or project manager: user interface: Yeah I think we  it was a a requirement that we use our  th the colours of our company , so would it be like yellow , grey and black or something , or marketing: That doesn't fit in with the whole vegetable theme though . marketing: Yeah , but  do you think we could incorporate the colours of the company into the buttons and then make the colour of the main remote the colour like vegetable colours , do you know ? So you could have like project manager: marketing:  I suppose vegetable colours would be orange and green and some reds and  maybe purple project manager: Green . marketing: and that and then you'd pick the buttons in company colours to to match with it .  since we're having L_C_D_s there there's no way that we're will be able to project manager: We need the advanced yeah . industrial designer:  what we do need to consider , however , is that the price is going up for the ever every such thing that we are considering , but since L_C_D_s seems to be  a definite yes , project manager: Yeah . marketing: So are we discounting solar energy because rubber's gonna be used in there somewhere or project manager: That was the industrial designer: Oh is oh the constraint was  marketing: If project manager: We can't have solar panels with rubber , so . project manager: Shall we go for if we're going for rubber , we think  on as our case , and then user interface: industrial designer: we'll have   using the simple battery will be a safer option as compared to the kinetic energy one , a although it does seem  interesting .  okay , so r we understand this better now that  the the speaker is for the feedback , right ? It it says  the things that you type in or something like that , so project manager: I think if we can if we can include them at not too much extra cost , then I'd put them in , industrial designer: Ye yeah , we we don't have too much information about it ,  project manager: but if it's Yeah . user interface: Yeah , but it it I think it should be quite cheap because it's from our own company , yeah . project manager: It's from the company , so industrial designer: Yeah , okay , so so th this is in as well then , the sample speaker . And the case is curved on one side , but then flat flat , so it's flipped into each other . project manager: Can I pull the thing out the back of your computer ? marketing: Yeah , sure j project manager: Just so we can marketing: Sorry , do you want me to project manager: Nothing , it's right , I'm just There we go . marketing: What does  I_C_S_ mean ? industrial designer: I_C_s ?  integrated circuits . industrial designer:   we we're definitely going in for voice recognition as well as L_C_D_s ,  . So we've basically worked out that we're going with a simple battery , the advanced chip industrial designer: Right . project manager: and a curved on one side case which is folded in on itself ,  made out of rubber industrial designer: Yep . We're having push-buttons on the outside and then on the inside an L_C_D_ with spinning wheel , and we're incorporating voice recognition . That's our overall concept , user interface:  project manager: and it's gonna look sort of vegetable , marketing: user interface: industrial designer: project manager: and be in bright vegetable colours . So w w would with have the spinning wheel inside with the L_C_D_ , or would it be on the outer marketing: Imagine it would be inside . marketing: so you've got your outside , which is like minimalist , and then you open it up and you've got a screen and a spinning wheel , which you can incorporate buttons into . marketing:  so you've still not got like a lot of stuff in the project manager: marketing: You've maybe got , you know like if you're modelling on iPod you've got five buttons and a wheel , project manager: On the marketing: and four of the buttons are in the wheel , and the other one's the little bit inside the wheel , project manager: In the centre , marketing: yeah . In the meantime , the Industrial Designer over here is gonna work on the look and feel design , industrial designer:  the User Interface Designer will work on the user interface design and the Marketing Expert is going to work on product evaluation . And as well as that , the two designers are going to work together on our prototype following those instructions that we've just come up with using modelling clay and you will get extra instructions from your personal coach . project manager: Is that all okay ? And anyone who hasn't put their their presentation in the project documents folder , it would be good just so in case we have to refer to it . marketing: I've got a bit tangled up in all this user interface: So but shall I move away first or shall I stay here with project manager: I dunno , maybe I would car user interface: we need to {disfmarker}