marketing: industrial designer: project manager: then we considered some design options with how it should look , we discussed an iPod-like button system which , we haven't concluded but we're Right ,  So , if you all have presentations to do , we can see what where you've come from our last time . Mostly by consulting remote control diagrams from the internet and also by incorporating design ideas from the last project meeting .  , I assume we'll be custom designing our case , probably a hard plastic or some other material case , to protect the remote and the locator . And we'll need to custom desi design a circuit board , because the circuit board has to take the button input and send it to the output so you have to design that each time . But once we come up with a design we'll send it to the circuit people and they'll just print it out . The infrared L_E_D_ is actually gonna be included in the circuit board that comes with it . And al we also need a beeper or buzzer or other sort of noise thing for locating the remote .  , I'd recommend against titanium because it can only be used in the flat cases and it's really heavy .  , and the rubber case requires rubber buttons , so if we definitely want plastic buttons , we shouldn't have a rubber case . project manager: And why not wood ? industrial designer: And , project manager: And why not wood ? industrial designer:  ?  , well we can use wood .  and also we should note that if we want an iPod-style wheel button , it's gonna require a m qu slightly more expensive chip . We can't use the minimal chip , we need the next higher grade , which is called regular . marketing: can I do next ? 'Cause I have to say something about the material project manager:  . Right , I have been searching the current trends , both on the web and via fashion-watchers , and the findings are that the first thing to aim for is a fashion  , fancy look and feel .  , fancy look and feel goes far beyond the functionality of the thing , but I suppose that is included in in the ease of use .  , our fashion-watchers in Milan and Paris have decided , well noticed , that f the fruit and vegetable theme is the is the current trend project manager: user interface: project manager: industrial designer: marketing: and and therefore  we need to go for that if we want , you know , wh whatever our motto is . And also go for a spongy feel , so the the question of our technology whate is Industrial Designer . As to the material should be limited to I don't know how spongy it can be , should discuss this together , I don't know how spongy can be achieved but apparently that's the way to go . I I have been thinking about this fruit and vegetable thing and I prefer fruits to vegetables , industrial designer: marketing: but that's just a personal opinion . user interface: marketing: I think project manager: marketing: I think people like to have a fruit instead of a vegetables in their sitting room . industrial designer: marketing:  those are just suggestions and also we need to decide whether this should be printed , so that still has to do with the material discuss should we print the fruit stuff , or should the actual remote look like a fruit ? project manager: industrial designer: marketing: and finally again with the spongy . It has to be technologically innovative so maybe again our Industrial Designer should look into that or find come up with a solution that's better than mine .  , yeah , to summarise these are the points that need to be  , touched in order to get a good decision , and hopefully our User Interface has more to say about the matter . project manager: marketing: industrial designer: user interface: I actually wasn't aware of the new trends in electronics project manager: industrial designer: user interface: and and  marketing: Neither was I . Trying we're gonna try to talk about ,  what kind of  how people are actually going to be using this iPod-ish remote control , based on fruit vegetable design . project manager: user interface: And , basically , so , this is a touched ba a touch-based graphical interface system .  , kind of  I assume , are we still on the screen idea ? project manager: Oh we s hadn't discussed it last time . user interface: 'Cause if we're gonna have to ha if we have this it just seems like in order to have someone going around and using the  the wheel project manager: You need a screen for it ? user interface: you it seems like you would need a screen . industrial designer: You need a screen with music because you're looking for a specific song , like you know that band or whatever . So , b you you're gonna have to switch to like D_V_D_ and like other things like that , aren't you ? project manager: We're , we're actually not having D_V_D_ , user interface: Are we project manager: that was one of th I I was industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: That correct ? user interface: So anyway if well we just we need to Okay so if we're not gonna have a screen I think I was thinking okay . So basically it's just gonna be a wheel then ? And you're just gonna  I think you're gonna have to have some kind of a right . marketing: Graphical interface ? user interface: Yeah like you're g marketing:  on the you can have it on the telly though . user interface: yeah like you're gonna have to be able to switch to like a mode where you can okay we're not choosing that , I guess . But like choose channel control , like if you wa Because people aren't gonna be able to have like , you know , channels one two three four five six seven eight nine . user interface: So that people seems to be well project manager: You've Yeah , I know what you're saying , you have to user interface: You know . So  I guess that's wh why I was thinking you may need to have some kind of a screen because So that people can go arou go back and forth and choose if or or then again if you just I guess I c I can see like some kind of a thing where like you sort of have like the number come up on the T_V_ like what channel you're on . user interface: You can just scroll and you can just get to like five or like twelve or marketing: Yeah , yeah . project manager: But but imagine someone with s industrial designer: My flatmates actually had one with a wheel , and it it did show up on the T_V_ . user interface: I oh yeah ? project manager: But i what if you have satellite and you have like two hundred channels . Then to get to channel one eighty nine you have to industrial designer: user interface: 'Cause you'll have to like marketing: Yeah . user interface: Yeah if you do , it w so it would have to be you  so you basically just kinda need to figure out like what kind of , you know , range we need to have on the wheel , and  So you're either you're you know , th you're either doing this motion to like control the channels or like once once you stop that , you know , you can like tap for , different project manager: Yeah . user interface: whatchamacallits , different  , you know , functions like volume or , like you can tap just to get to different channels . Like if you just wanted to go to like from five to six you could tap or someth project manager: Right . user interface: And then there's also the concern about you know  how do you get to the menu if you wanna change the brightness of your television , or if you want to  you know switch around , I don't know , like , these different modes like turn on the timer or like something something like that , project manager: Yeah  with that many options , you'd  I'd think that the screen would be better , user interface: like project manager: because you could have that menu option , sort of user interface: I would think so too , like So  and it seems it w it does seem a little silly to have this screen if you hardly are ever using it , you know , because project manager: Yeah . user interface: but then again it would it does make kind of if the screen's sort of just like an option that , like , is just there and you're not really using it , that's kind of project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: You have to get a an advanced chip if you wanna have a screen in , which is more expensive than the regular chip , which is more expensive than the minimal . So then basically it has to have some way to get to get to a mode on the television where you're doing ,  project manager:  . user interface: You can get to you know , you can Like maybe it'll be that central button that , like , then you hit that and then you can it brings up like the menu on the T_V_ marketing: Yeah , yeah , yeah . user interface: and you can just scroll around , like , to do the timer , to do the marketing: Yeah . project manager: So the T_V_ is the screen , that yeah user interface: yeah , yeah . industrial designer: marketing: you can just take theirs and just user interface: Yeah , well we don't want the screen I guess , project manager: Yeah . user interface: but  'cause that just it does seem like , it that would be , like , incredibly expensive , but I dunno , and then so , it just im really all you need is , like , this little wheel then , and you can control everything . What if  , if you're thinking of the design of it now , like the a you know , physical attributes , user interface: Yeah . project manager: and you just have this , it's like just a long silver thing , industrial designer: project manager: or whatever we're thinking .  are you you gonna have any buttons on that besides power and this thing ? Or user interface: It doesn't seem that you would need anything besides pow  and the power button could even be like hold down the menu button for like longer than one second and it turns on the T_V_ . user interface: Like , I think we're looking at something that could be , like like even maybe like a cir I'm f I'm seeing almost like a circular sort of like handheld like thing . user interface:  how do how do I'm not really Like when I use an iPod , I end up just kind of using my index finger to like control it . So project manager: Yeah , I've seen some people just going like that with their thumb , yeah . industrial designer: W when we had the wheely remote control , we it was on the top I think , if you held it like that . project manager: But , were there buttons on there as well ? user interface: Yeah , so industrial designer: Yeah well it had the wheely thing and then it had those eighteen different buttons that I don't know what they do . user interface: Like , I d  , you you want it to be large enough that you can project manager: What if , you had like a b a cover that went over buttons that you don't use very much ? Like you so you could slide it up if you needed to like change the contrast or something like that ? So the options are there but they're not in interfering with the design and the practicality of it . user interface: But can't you just get project manager: Do do you know what I'm talking about though ? Like , yeah just something industrial designer: Yeah . Yeah like maybe something on the side where you slip a panel down and it's got a whole bunch of user interface: K marketing: Well you can have it on the settings , project manager: Yeah , that you can flip over , yeah , yeah . marketing: no ? user interface: Yeah , But , do you need that ? If if you can get to , you know if so long as you're able to bring up the menu on the T_V_ screen . project manager: is is if w I user interface: That keeps it project manager: if we can do this , that'd probably be user interface: really Yeah . user interface: So project manager: So I guess we have to look into the , like , the programming , how this how they actually programme these things , and if that's user interface: Mean industrial designer: Oh how they make the menu show up on the T_V_ ? project manager: yeah . industrial designer: I believe it's ins it's gotta be inside the T_V_ , not inside the remote . user interface: It sounds like this remote's going to be purchased separately from the television , industrial designer: marketing: project manager: industrial designer: Well they usually are . user interface: which is a little industrial designer: Well user interface: My I've never bought just a remote , like , so I don't I don't really know . project manager: user interface: So ,  but  it's I've never had a hard time with like my remotes , like bringing up the menu screen if you need to like change the date or whatever , you know . industrial designer: Yeah , it most of the ones we've had have had the menu button , 'cause it's not like you need to have a button access to like change the contrast or something . Well I guess we have to you know think about But  you just basically need the output signal you know to be able to bring it up . marketing: But also if you have it on the screen you can actually write everything out , because the problem with buttons is you like , they have these sort of abbreviations and codes that you're supposed to understand , user interface: Yeah . project manager: you don't know they mean , yeah , it's like industrial designer: marketing: and I never get it . user interface: So , but marketing: So user interface: oh , you mean if we have this screen like the iPod screen ? marketing: Well on the telly . So yeah I think , I think I think the touch-based graphical interface is a really  cool idea industrial designer: user interface: because you know it is so obnoxious to like have to push those like okay now I hit this you know , you have your little guide out and you're like , hit this button twice , like to activate the date . And it is trendy , the iPods are really hot right now , so project manager: B Yeah . marketing: Did you did you get that pc picture on did they provide you with that picture on the web ? user interface: yeah , by web research , yeah , so marketing: That's quite interesting . What are we going to do about this vegetable thing that I'm dreading ? project manager: Oh god . industrial designer: one of the material options is a sort of rubber that's in like those stress ball things . user interface: Yeah , c that's e that would be kind of oh , you know , usually like the touch pad things are kind of a hard plastic typ mouse type , you know , thing . user interface: But what if we ha what if we had like a spongy sort of like stress balley kinda industrial designer: project manager: marketing: industrial designer: user interface: so you're like industrial designer: Yeah I think it could work . user interface: Or what if we integrated the the  the f what if the whole thing about the fruit and vegetables marketing: user interface: we somehow made it tactilely fash you know , we c tapped into that , so like it feels like industrial designer: Don't think I'd want it to feel like a banana . marketing: If it's a small thing , you c instead of creating an object for it that looks like a banana , industrial designer: marketing: which frankly I'm not particularly fond of , project manager: user interface: marketing:  you could just have covers and then your mobile f it's like a mobile phone thing . marketing: You know you had there was a time when they had all these different covers for mobiles . industrial designer: You could do like the computers where they have like the grapefruit , apple machine and they have like the blueberry , like all the colours are named after fruits . project manager: marketing: And it could the colour can fit your sitting room , industrial designer: marketing: so if you have red sitting room you can have strawberry , and then if you have a green one you can have well I don't know . project manager: So what if what user interface: So I think project manager: this is user interface: yeah , colours . If you have like that stress ball material kind of as what you're actually holding in your hand , so like what you're feeling is comfortable , and then there's more of a hard plastic thing where that thing is . project manager: And on that hard plastic thing you can change either the colour or the fruit or vegetable that's on there .  project manager:  how are you how are you all envisioning by what we've just the feedback we've just got about the marketing: Maybe a ball . That you can p user interface: That's in the shape of a fruit , like a project manager: industrial designer: marketing: well I see you're thinking , it's weird , you're thinking the opposite of me 'cause you're thinking you change the the hard bit project manager: Yeah . marketing: and I'm thinking how do you change the hard would you put a  sticker sort of ? Because I was thinking if you have a cover for the squashy bit , like a project manager: This is just Okay . Yeah I was thinking of getting a cover for project manager: That see I was thinking this s marketing: Which is cheaper . project manager: I was thinking this bit here would be the cover and like that's your actual thing . project manager: And like this you could have like you could have like cherries and things around there . industrial designer: So you're holding a squishy ball project manager: 'cause the way you were describing the the iPod and the thi the roll thingy industrial designer: and then it has a user interface: It's like it has to be s project manager: It's almost like your thumb is farther up , user interface: yeah . project manager: so if if you could squish it lower then industrial designer: Yeah I guess so . So it wouldn't be very big in either like how big ? This big , and then you just do that , I suppose . user interface: What if , yeah , what if the squishy , oh so so you're saying the squishy part's like detachable , and you can so so maybe one you know you can have like the broccoli squishy thing , and then you could have like the banana squishy thing project manager: industrial designer: marketing: user interface: and you could get you could have your choice , you know ? marketing: Well just a li I can't des like condom thingy , like a a cover . project manager: industrial designer: marketing: But well the question is , which one's easiest to change and we can just contact our relevant department for that , project manager: Yeah . marketing: and just see what the cost is for covering that or covering that , user interface: Yeah , yeah . marketing: and for now we can do two prototypes maybe and then hi try and ask users what the best is , user interface: Yeah .  I think  and I think the handhe I think the handheld part is definitely So you could make that into the fruit and vegetable part . marketing: If it's a bit like those juggling balls , you can change shape according to your to the way you hold it . marketing: If it's got sand in it maybe , or something , you it it just moulds to your hand . So where are the fruit and vegetables now ? project manager: industrial designer: I guess they would be either in the colour of that plastic face on the front , or in the colour of the squishy thing underneath . marketing: And the rest is the company the company colour's silver ? project manager: It was , yeah , silver and yellow . It l it looks like I don't industrial designer: user interface: We could promote the banana one . project manager:  that's another question , where are we gonna we we should have the logo somewhere on it . Then you need to have the other part just be sort of a single unit that you can snap off . user interface: Yeah , I think ,  it'd be interesting to have the b the squishy bit . The part that you , yeah , can change into the different , you know , trendy vegetables and fruits . project manager: I don't know what the rest of my notes mean because they were made for me .  , so what d but what do we know about energy ?  we're gonna use batteries right ? And industrial designer:  we actually had an option of batteries , solar power , and  a dynamo , project manager: industrial designer: which is something I don't know what it is . It's the en it's like if if something moves , when it moves , it stores energy . Yeah , the other one was the other one was a kinetic thing where you'd basically have to wind it yourself . industrial designer: We could have talked about doing a wind-up or a dynamo or a solar power . But dynamo the the fact with dynamo is , the moment you move it , it c it creates energy on its own . So if you throw it , it's gonna store loads of energy , and you don't need to buy a battery 'cause they're quite f I find them annoying . industrial designer: Didn't have enough data to actually marketing: Does anyone have costs on the on the web ? industrial designer: All it said was it gave sort of relative , some chips are more expensive than others , sort of things . project manager: What does chip on print mean ? industrial designer: for things like remote controls , they stamp out a chip , marketing: project manager: -huh . industrial designer: But it's not like a computer , you can't like reprogramme your remo remote controls , it's like stamped onto the chip . And case ?  I guess that's what we've been talking about , industrial designer: Case is what we were discussing yeah . thinking of like syntactic case and thi industrial designer: project manager:  let's see . project manager: talk about ? Oh when we move on , you two are going to be playing with play-dough . industrial designer: project manager: and working on the look and feel of the design and user interface design . Does it matter that I end early ? marketing: I it's strange because project manager: How how early is it ? I didn't get a pop-up thing that said {disfmarker}