project manager: How do we sta wa how do we start ? Does anybody know ? marketing: Oh , another one . project manager: I haven't looked at it , but let's just start it off and we'll see what happens . project manager: So is the agenda ? Opening , acquaintance , tool training and project plan , discussion and then closing . project manager: Project method , functional design , individual work , another meeting , conceptual design , individual work , and a meeting of details design , individual work and a meeting . Try out the whiteboard , every participant should draw their favourite animal and sum up their favourite characteristics of that animal . So are we supposed to bring the little things for the project manager: Yeah , why don't you just c , I think just clip on clip marketing: project manager: do you have a belt ? industrial designer:  . So my favourite animal project manager: Yeah , what's your favourite animal ? industrial designer: 'Kay  marketing: Ah . project manager: 'Kay , and you want to write up on there , it says you've gotta sum up your f f your favourite characteristics of that animal . project manager: Do you want to use the wipe the m the wiper and wipe it off ? industrial designer: Okay . project manager: And Mister aesthetics designer do you wanna go next ? user interface: Aesthetic yep , sure . Can I just draw the face ? project manager:  yeah , I think you can just draw the face , but then you'll have to describe in writing how the rest of it looks . project manager: Okay , do y do you wanna do some write marketing: Why ? project manager: you wanna just write some words about it ? marketing: Because  cuddly . And they can feel when a human's got problems so project manager: Wow , so they're kinda spiritual . project manager: but for the for th for this meeting I'll s draw a little marketing: industrial designer: Oh that's a project manager: no user interface: industrial designer: user interface: A prairie dog ? project manager: no  user interface: Oh a squirrel ? project manager: That's exactly what it is . project manager: Okay , well , you got it's a s It's a squirrel , and I like them , because they're cute and stupid . Production cost , ah right it's gotta be can't cost any more than twelve fifty to make . user interface: So I think before we close  , we are expected  the last slide wanted us to maybe discuss longer what our what our ideas where . user interface: Yeah , I think we're  before we close the meeting , we're supposed to come up with some ideas for project manager: Oh k so we're actually supposed to be doing this discussion like right now are we or user interface: Yeah . project manager: I thought this was just t giving us instructions for the re to do next , but user interface: Yeah , I think this is just the preliminary , get some rough ideas for what our experiences with remote controls have been and and what we would roughly what we would incorporate into a new one maybe . industrial designer: Is this a T_V_ one we are supposed to make ? marketing: Yeah . Are we are we going for like like telephones are going little teeny tiny things or we are going for something that's that's big and marketing: Medium . Yeah it seems like there's like there's sort of a tension between two ideas , you want you want one remote that maybe can work  all all of the functions of T_V_ and if you have whatever associated with T_V_ the D_V_D_ player , or something like that , project manager: Video and ts hi-fi and stuff . user interface: but like at the same time you don't wanna really busy remote with a thousand buttons on it or something . project manager: 'Cause I I  I was thinking something that's got different like maybe a a an L_C_D_ display on it that's got different pages for different devices , marketing: project manager: but that would p that would probably be quite expensive . industrial designer: But how do we know how much  , how much do we have per how much ? marketing: Twelve fifty . industrial designer: So do we have to be realistic within the budget or project manager: Well at the moment we could , wa  we industrial designer: Close pr I don't know how much it would cost . marketing: Guess project manager: 'cause we this is what we th what we're doing at the moment is just saying what what we'd like , and then after we after we've found out what we can like , some different ideas , we can then go and do the research to find out if these any of these ideas are feasible or not . marketing: Couldn't we have like one that comes out ? Like so you have one in like  industrial designer: Yeah . And then you have one for your D_V_D_ and you sort of slide it out , and then you have another one , you slide it out . So it's not you actually just putting three or four different remotes together but making them thinner , and  into one basically . industrial designer:  have  one very complicated one on one side with all the D_V_D_ and V_C_R_ access and stuff , and then on the other side o one  a remote control that would be very very simple with just the channel , program plus and minus , and the just the mute button , for example . user interface: I'm not sure if that's like industrial designer: Or grandma as well , you know it's like what is the mute button . user interface: I'm not sure if it's a good idea to have a two sided remote though , 'cause it would be very hard to use in the way that you mani manipulate it . industrial designer: No , but you would slide it into  someth like something on the back would hold like you wouldn't be able to press the buttons , but user interface: Oh . project manager: F flip it open and you've got all the buttons , or you flip it closed and you've just got the basic buttons on the outside maybe . user interface: I guess by the end of this meeting we should have at least a a rough conception you know stage one was technical functions design , what effect the apparatus should have .  so  we still have time in our next meeting to come up with the actual concept for the user interface , but the the functions that we're sure that we want are that it can control the T_V_ , but also devices connected to the to the T_V_ , be able to operate project manager: Yeah . project manager: I have got I think we should also have a back-up plan of I 'cause I I I just think that it might be expensive to make something that  we don't , we haven't been told it has to be something that will control everything . We should have a back-up plan of just a really good television remote control , that just that is just for a T_V_ , but it's just a really good , nice one . project manager: What do you reckon ? See 'cause , I'm just thinking bearing in mind th we've gotta we have to have something that's cheap to make . Yeah , that's true , maybe we should just concentrate on having a a good T_V_ remote , and have it be  project manager: I think we'll be able to come up with ideas and stuff a lot quicker . user interface: have it be like ergonomic so it's comfortable to use , project manager: Yeah . user interface:  simple to use , and looks decent and project manager: May w you know , maybe even marketing: But what'll make it what'll make it interesting for people to buy though ? project manager: Or maybe even so something that's for disabled people marketing:  if it's if it's just like project manager: or so people that  b don't see very well or big buttons for touchy buttons for user interface: Sorta find a niche for our remote , like market it to a certain kind of p kind of people , project manager: Yeah . Yeah , rathe rather than focus on project manager: Otherwise we'll be we'll be here all day talking about do this let's do that n I think we sh I think we should user interface: Y Yeah . industrial designer: Yeah , 'cause at the end of the day if it says just T_V_ remote , doesn't say com combination with all all the r user interface: Yeah .  obviously everyone we're  you know  sounds like we're all a bit sort of gadget heads and we like things that do everything at once , but you know , that's user interface: Remotes spinning out from other remotes and having little nested remotes inside . industrial designer: marketing: I think a flip up thing , 'cause you always have this problem of like if it's on this well I did anyway , like we had five or six remotes and they would be lying on the c on the coach , and you'd come and sit down and ooh , the telephone's the television switched on or something . So maybe something that like does have a lid or closes , so you don't accidentally press a button or record button for something . project manager: Okay , like a lock f like a lock functs function on it like you have on your telephones , yeah . user interface: Yeah , that's true what you were saying ,  it doesn't have to have a flip function , it can just have a lock function , so that it's not  not usable when you don't want it to be usable . marketing: project manager: so we've got some ideas , we've got  user interface: I guess that's good good for now . marketing: W What does I_D_V_I_D_N_M_E_ stand for ? project manager: Industrial Designer  which is marketing: Ah ri okay . project manager: that's you , so you gotta you go , you're you're gonna be the one that's working out what what buttons we need . project manager: Industrial Designer , you are the one , you know , you're gonna be working out kind of box it goes in , I guess so ,  whether it's what goes into the box , somehow . Har how it works an project manager: And in marketing industrial designer: Bu marketing: These are requirement specification . marketing: So what the user requires project manager: Yeah , what industrial designer: Do you think our two kind of overlap , because marketing: in a remote . project manager: You two you two are gonna be just , I think , you just double up , you know , you working together . project manager: You're the one that's gotta go and find out do th do the research , see what people want in a remote , what buttons are used more often , and s stuff like that . industrial designer: user interface: marketing: So , do we take these off ? industrial designer: I don't {disfmarker}