industrial designer: So yeah , I've The only the only remote controls I've used usually come with the television , and they're fairly basic . industrial designer: So  project manager: Yeah , I was thinking that as well , I think the the only ones that I've seen that you buy are the sort of one for all type things where they're , user interface: Yeah the universal ones . project manager:  'cause  , what  twenty five Euros , that's about I dunno , fifteen Pounds or so ? And that's quite a lot for a remote control . As you said they come with the T_V_ so it's normally just your basic grey black remote control functions , project manager: -huh .  , and as you say , we need to have some kind of gimmick , so  I thought maybe something like if you lose it and you can whistle , project manager: Okay . marketing: being as a Marketing Exper Expert I will like to say like before deciding the cost of this remote control or any other things we must see the market potential for this product like what is the competition in the market ? What are the available prices of the other remote controls in the prices ? project manager: Okay . marketing: What speciality other remote controls are having and how complicated it is to use these remote controls as compared to other remote controls available in the market . So before deciding or before finalising this project , we must discuss all these things , like user interface: Okay . marketing: and apart from this , it should be having a good look also , because people really li  like to play with it when they are watching movies or playing with or playing with their C_D_ player , M_P_ three player like any electronic devices . marketing: They really want to have something good , having a good design in their hands , project manager: user interface: industrial designer: what do we think a project manager: So , we're looking for 'Kay . industrial designer: What do we think a good size would be for this ? project manager: We're marketing: industrial designer: 'Cause I I know as you add more buttons to the remote it sometimes gets so big and clunky project manager: Sorry , carry on . user interface: industrial designer: and there's just like a hundred buttons on it , project manager: user interface: Kind of  , maybe more like a P_D_A_ kind of , just hand held , like , project manager: For for  user interface: 'cause project manager: remember we're trying to make it for twelve Euros fifty . No , I wasn't , no sorry I wasn't thinking of the screen of like a P_D_A_ project manager: Okay well right we'll have to  I'll user interface: but project manager: we're k having another meeting in half an hour so  user interface: Okay . project manager: we should all look into a bit  , oh actually , no , we'll allocate . project manager: if you could maybe come up with sort of shapes and suggested shades or whatever , and you could look into  basically how how it's made I_E_ like how you make it all in one , how what sort of materials are available to you whatever . project manager: Which will probably just usurp what I said so user interface: So you want me to look at shapes and everything you said ? project manager: Shapes and colours and  basically how to make it attractive . marketing: project manager: So industrial designer: project manager: we have  industrial designer: Wait for emails ? marketing:  