So just to try and roughly go over what we agreed in the last one ,  we're gonna go for something   how was it ?  The new black , I believe . project manager:  something that looks good 'cause that seems to be in preference to actual functionality in the end , though we should never avoid functionality , of course .  many of our components are gonna be standard , off the shelf , but it seemed like we were gonna require at least an advanced chip and we were still very much for the idea of using an L_C_D_ display .  other things were we were hoping to use rubber , most likely gonna be double curved , etcetera . So  due to your hard work , we might as well let the  two designers go first , and  show us the prototype . user interface: Okay , it's a project manager: Quite how the best way to do this is , I'm not sure , industrial designer: user interface: I think if we both step up project manager: but user interface: and  outline our ideas .  for one thing , it turned out that the only point at which it needs to be articulated for handedness is  is h i is down here for the  L_E_D_ . As it turned out , the whole thing transfers from the right to left hand fairly well from the point of view of operating the  function buttons and joystick , though it might be an idea to be able to a adjust the positions for the base of the joystick just a little bit for  project manager: Okay . You could simply have a slightly ovoid shaped joystick that could then just be turn  twisted round , so that the  sticky  so that the bit that sticks out a bit more is on one side or the other . But as you as you see with the  with holding it in the left hand , the L_  the L_C_D_ is nowhere useful , so that would need to be articulated  if we're going to retain ergonomic design . project manager: We'll go into that a bit more , user interface: this design could be done with  with  plastic casing . user interface: Though I would recommend around the grip part here in the middle , having maybe just a rubber grip over that which would allow for a slightly more sort of bio-morphic form , and a bit more ergonomic as well . As for the  as for the single curve ,  well this edge and this edge , like I say it would be nice to have some curvature to it , but it's not absolutely necessary . Really the curve that's most needed is the underside so that the jo so that the joystick rests over the the edge of the hand like this .  and you have the  transmitter here and a wee speaker for the  for the  for the  fi  for the remote control finder . project manager: user interface: Any further comments ? industrial designer:  obviously it's gonna be bulkier than how it looks , because it's gonna be flat on one side , so the L_C_D_ will be s sticking down like this , won't it ? user interface: industrial designer: And it's plastic as well , so it won't be as comfortable on the hand .  with the with the rubber design it could i you know it could pretty much mould very much to the to the user's hand . user interface: One nice wee feature if we could if we could still do the rubber , I though of was to have the  rubber extend beyond the end of the  of the rigid substructure . So it has a wee sort of tail that you just drape over your wrist so it stays in position nicely . So after we've finished doing all the ratings for each criteria , we average that and that will give us some type of  confidence in our prototype . And  the criteria based on Real Reactions' kinda goals and policies , marketing strategies , and also those I put together from the user requirements phase . And  perhaps I could have put 'em a bit better , but you notice a few things that we've totally abandoned , which means that  the product will score very badly on some of those points . So  how well would you say the prototype is  how well have we realised the dream of being able to stop remotes from from being lost , or to be able to find them once they are lost .  ,  is the homing thing still the locator , is that still user interface: Yeah , that's still part of the design . project manager: but I'd like to think that we've done something about finding the damn thing once we have . marketing: Os on a scale of one to seven , how would you guys rate it for finding finding it once it's lost ? user interface: I'd say number one . user interface: I think w if it was just the sounder then th  something I've found with  w w with say tr trying to find  a cordless phone or a m mobile , you can hear it , but you can't quite pin it dow pin down where it is . marketing: Yeah you can tell what room the mobile is user interface: Bu industrial designer: What about what if the the volume on the T_V_'s turned up massively and  you just wanna turn down the volume can't find remote . project manager: just before we go through all of the steps here ,  well what we'll do is marketing: You wanna say something ? project manager:  if we can look at the criteria you're gonna evaluate , and then we'll come back to the product evaluation if that's alright . project manager:  so is there anything here that you that you wanted to cover as in the criteria that you've covered ? And then we'll come back pretty much promptly to this . marketing: What do you mean cr is there anything I wanna project manager: I is there any of these criteria that need any explaining ? Or is there anything that yous thought tha really would stand out compared to the others ? marketing: a few . Something I neglected from my initial research is that Real Reactions has a a goal strategy that all of the products be inspired by material fashion , and clothing fashion . That is why fruit and veg being popular in the home and in clothing was important and they want all their products to be somehow inspired by current trends in fashion . So they say we put the fashion in electronics , well they really mean it they they're very big on fashion , project manager: Okay . And  this bit is this one easy to use for visitors or for anybody ? I guess it's just the same as saying easy to use interface , so it's kinda condensed into one . Slight problem we had was that we have an amazing four Euros over budget for what we were hoping to do .  most of it stems from the use of the L_C_D_ which I think in the end accounted for about half of our expenditure because of course we required a chip as well .  the only way to get this down was either to ditch the a L_C_D_ , at which point we've removed a large part of how we were gonna interface , require more buttons , etcetera . Or what we did was that we  we as in I as I was quickly going over it was altering the actual structure .  changing it to plastic and a solid unit with a single curve design would allow us to come back into the  proposed costs and we're just scraping it in , we've got point two of a Euro left over there . Even then as well ,  there was no criteria technically defined for a joystick so I've used what I think's appropriate . With any luck that won't mean that we've incurred more cost than we can actually afford to . It blows a lot of our really good ideas kind of slightly to one side , for example the possibility of having a U_S_B_ connection is definitely not viable now . We've got an advanced chip , we've got the use of the L_C_D_ . project manager:  but what's something we need to decide on is how we're gonna go from here . We do need to try and come up with an idea which could be continued with other people if need be . I really think as m much as it pains me is that we might have to go with plastic and some kind of solid design , possibly meaning that the L_C_D_ wouldn't be in this perfect place . It might be s stuck like slightly between what would be good for left handed and what would be good for a right handed person . user interface: - I suppose o one thing that could be done is h is have it  circular and have it s so that the  the pink actually goes a bit over the pinkie finger . marketing: Do you have any data on how much  different prints cost ?  can you get the entire thing printed with a design  ? project manager:  b b b da is you mean on the plastic , or ? marketing: . project manager: So as you can see here , for example , the battery really not very little choice in that one .  plastic for some reason incurs no cost , which I've had to very much make advantage of , despite the fact that rubber's only got a value of two Euros per unit .  if I've read this thing correctly , then we can save point five of a Euro here in that it's not per push button . That might make sense , because then a numeric keypad would come in at  what , four point five Euros , which is an awful lot , so that could well be wrong . Even if we save point five there , it would just mean that we're most likely placing it in actually just gaining a colour for the unit , which has had to be put to one side . As you can see , the use of an L_C_ display  advanced chip and what would determine the scroll wheel here as well because it's an integrated scroll scroll wheel push button that wasn't quite what I think they had in mind with a joystick . marketing: Why would why would that be more expensive than an individual push button and scroll wheel together ? That's quite significantly expensive . project manager: So  I'm very much open to suggestions of where we go , but because we need to shed what was four Euros off of the  the price of for what we really desired , this one comes in under price as you can see , but this was the one that sacrificed the material for the case and for the actual case design . The like  we  what about speakers and transmitters and stuff like that ? Have we factored that in ? industrial designer:  . industrial designer: marketing: Is that gonna be a button , or project manager: That'll it literally would just be a button . project manager: We might have to industrial designer: That's too expensive isn't it ? project manager: It looks like almost nothing  . marketing: Did they s do we have to use an advanced chip for the L_C_D_ ? industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: So if we're gonna go with the L_C_ display , then that's marketing: What's a hand dyna dynamo ? You have to wind it up ? project manager: I believe so , yeah . marketing: industrial designer: project manager: That would probably not be in keeping with the  the fashion statement and such , marketing: Technology . industrial designer: So basically the only new thing is the L_C_D_ on the remote now . marketing: And we couldn't replace the joystick , right ? Because we would need four extra buttons to replace it , up down left and right , and that would be more expensive than a but is a scroll wheel not just back and forward ? user interface:  . project manager: Yeah it's just because there was no actual definition for what a joystick might be , that that's what I've labelled it for the purposes of this evaluation . industrial designer: So The L_C_D_ basically is the big selling point of project manager: If we remove the L_C_ display , we could save ourselves industrial designer: the remote . I think if we remove the the L_C_ display then there was absolutely no point to any of these meetings marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: isn't it ? user interface: and we just we could just put our branding on any other remote control . We should possibly have If we could've increased the price we could've manufactured that and we could've got something far closer to what we were hoping to . marketing: Does this does this bear in mind that  it's a bit ridiculous that they're gonna charge us what is it , like this much money for three million if we're gonna buy three million components , project manager: Again , you'll have to argue with the accountants on that one . project manager:  but for the purposes of this meeting , I'm we're gonna have to stick with these figures . project manager: So , I would say that it would seem like the general opinion is we're gonna keep the L_C_ display 'cause it's about what really separates us , despite the cost it's gonna incur . project manager: are people maybe not happy with , but are willing to go ahead with this in going for a plastic solid case , to keep the L_C_D_ ? user interface:  yeah  one thing ,  ho  how much extra would it be to to keep  keep the  the articulation ? project manager: It's hard to tell .  I would say that you're at least gonna take double curved , user interface: This is what I'm wondering . project manager: and even then I'm not quite sure if that's incorporating the idea of articulation . user interface: no , I think I I it d that it needn't require it to be double curved . industrial designer: It can be s yeah , it can still be single curved , user interface: It's  it's just it's just it's just that the case would come in t would be made in two parts and then joined together with an articulation . marketing: Could we could we not get rid of the curvy the curvous the curvaceousness and focus on the menu being the best interface ? 'Cause like we do we have re restrictions on software ? industrial designer: That's what we need for the joystick I think though . Yeah ,  marketing: Oh but there has to be user interface: and  the   if you look  if you look closer at the  at the prototype here , the lines here along the grip are actually quite straight .   yeah , project manager: But the curves all o over hand , user interface: on the on the L_C_D_  although we've done it with a curve it project manager: is it ? user interface: could just as easily be done  without curves . user interface: to put  to keep the joystick in a good ergonomic position for it to have it rest on the top of the hand . project manager: We wouldn't actually save a lot by reducing it anyway , so  for the purposes of this meeting maybe we can state that single curve still allows articulation . As long as so are we gonna say w we have to keep an eye on the time as well , but we're gonna say  single curved design marketing: Oh , wait a minute . Sample speaker ? What is a sample speaker ? Is that somewhat similar to what we want ? project manager: It could well be , user interface:  no project manager: but at a cost of user interface: that's that voice response thing that we got the email about . user interface: B i basically it was saying that our labs had come up with a chip that you could , you know , say hello to , and it would say hello back in a friendly female voice . marketing: We won't go with that one , did you say ? project manager: Yeah , that's voice recognition , so . So , okay yeah , battery definitely , marketing: So it looks like we're gonna get rid of the whole loca locator thing . project manager: It looks like it unless we can manage to put it in under point two Euros ,  . project manager: Maybe even slight well oh yeah , pretty much point two Euros , I'd say . we'll just have industrial designer: Are we going for a special colour at all ? project manager: It's  a case of  I'm  slightly unsure . I'm not quite sure if they're I don't think they mean point five Euros per button . user interface: l let's say that and then we can have our special coloured case project manager: So user interface: and then we at least have make it a little harder to lose . user interface: Because most m most remotes are a fairly dingy colour that gets camouflaged under any pile of crap in a living room . marketing: W what's the default colour ? White or black ? project manager: Black's probably the normal colour you'd say , user interface: Or grey . project manager: I quite like that colour that you're fetching there , user interface: Yellow . industrial designer: marketing: So  project manager: Just to give you an idea ,  you want to go maybe a bit quickly as well , I'm not sure how much time . user interface: It makes it stand out from you know it's lost in a big pile of crap , it stands out from the rest of the crap . We're down to t two buttons , is it ? user interface: Two buttons and a joystick . industrial designer: Are we going one on ? marketing: Yeah , industrial designer: I'd say we go two , 'cause like f the fanciest would be the double curved . project manager: I'd industrial designer: Wouldn't it ? marketing: w maybe you'd be a bit too project manager: Yeah . Well , we're getting rid of the locator thing project manager: Which is a shame .  the menus thing is something you don't normally see on  on a remote , marketing: 'Kay . marketing: And y what you're doing is moving the menu from the television to the remote control , so it's user interface: industrial designer: project manager: Yeah , w marketing: Sponginess is what they really would have wanted , apparently . marketing: project manager:  because of the way that we've minimalised the number of buttons and such . industrial designer: Six ? project manager: marketing: Yeah , okay let's give it a six . user interface: Well I I I would sa I would say give a s give a selection of colours . marketing: I know , user interface:  we went with yellow we went with yellow for the prototype marketing: but user interface: 'cause we had yellow . marketing: But  by this I think it's more a case of fruit and veg , industrial designer: Yeah we gotta . I'd say the colour of the border there world you'd find that , that's that'd stand out . project manager: Is it inspired by clothing fashion ? marketing: But Th th they're referring to the fruit and veg thing . marketing: Is this like a banana type colour ? Could we stretch no still , it's not shaped like a banana is user interface: That's kinda i project manager: It's kind o it user interface: it won't be when it's been project manager: probably marketing: Oh is that 'cause it's flat ? user interface: budgeted . marketing: What is what fruit or veg is flat ? user interface: I I think s I I think this isn't not particularly fruit and veggie . user interface: project manager: Well industrial designer: project manager:  it's probably more fruit and veg than most other things out there bar fruit and veg , so , what , four ? marketing: Four ? Oh that's it's very ambitious , project manager: Is that being too generous ? user interface:  . user interface:  I'd g I'd rate I'd rate this fairly highly from that point of view actually . I m imagine we actually had some money invested in this and the amount that we invest is gonna be proportional to the marks . project manager: What would you think yourself ? marketing: I would say  it's it's not at all , right ? In any way or shape or form . project manager: Well , it's kind of curved marketing: We didn't m project manager: and we can make it yellow , and that's pretty much banana like . Is that sound reasonable ? project manager: Am I do you think I'm stretching the  the use of the banana ? industrial designer: Yeah , I'll go with five . marketing: project manager:  right okay it's industrial designer: 'S bad design , that thing . project manager: considering the price we had to get this in , to have a positive you know , even based on the four of us being heavily biased ,  marketing: project manager: it was gonna be quite hard to get anything standing out I'd say possibly , based on  the the cost features . marketing: Even if we were to increase this entire thing by by seven , we were to go down a grade to to four , we would have to do  we didn't we weren't that kinda optimistic too optim overly optimistic . You know like we didn't we didn't add we didn't subtract a whole seven points from these things , so I think we're definitely on the good bit . user interface: marketing: Even if we gave this one seven and this one seven , that's still only three extra points over seven . Personally , I think given that the product  only replaces a single remote control marketing: we did it w it was okay . user interface: that you've already got , are people really gonna shell out twenty five Euros for something that's only marginally good ? industrial designer: Well , it depends who your who's what the target people are , like you'd say maybe the fashion conscious project manager: Maybe it's been targeted industrial designer: women would be going , oh look at that , 's cool , it looks like a marketing: industrial designer: it's yellow , looks like a banana , it's cool it's gotta look good in the sitting room . industrial designer: Rather than the L_C_D_ whereas  more technical like like more  people in with the latest technology it's good , it's got an L_C_D_ screen 's only got two buttons and a joystick . So , which which kind of people would be more likely to buy it ? project manager: Probably the people technologically . industrial designer: marketing:  my mum still has not learnt how to use text messaging on her phone , and she's had it for a long time , you know . So I think if sh if my mum saw a remote control like this with only two buttons and a joystick ,  that'll probably be the first one she decides not to buy , you know . marketing: She'd be like is this a remote control , I don't how do you use it , and stuff like that . So even if it is really user friendly to us , but we're used to using menus all the time . I s I suppose one thing is that b because it's technically innovative ,  for someone who's sort of technophobic , the fact that it simply looks unfamiliar would be daunting . marketing: I think it's totally  radical to have a remote control with no no numbered buttons , industrial designer: Yeah . Does anybody want to   do you have any opinions on any of them ? For example  we'll work backwards I suppose .  people made good use of the  pen and paper ? user interface: Yeah , project manager: I would say user interface: got notes and doodles . project manager: I'm not quite sure what the advantage for us using a digital pen might be . user interface: Well I think this is a I think the digital pen's mostly for the benefit of the  marketing: I think tracking . project manager: It must user interface: Though it would have been nice to be able to transfer the  transfer our n our paper notes onto the  computer ourselves . marketing: Well user interface: Unti   until  until accounts came along , project manager: Now , I think we got user interface: squish . project manager: Yeah marketing: We we're not lacking in ideas , you know it's that was not the problem . Not so much that we weren't full of ideas , but of ones that are gonna allow us to actually build the thing . project manager: If you're going to aim your a  product maybe at the technological kind of sector , then you can afford to maybe jack the price up slightly from what it is .  I th  I think to r retaining the s the more sort of bio-morphic form in the articulation would gain more in s  would gain more profit in sales than it would lose in  project manager: first on the market . And would it have to be twice that ? It could be like coulda had the assembly like maybe fifteen Euro . project manager:  I suppose these are all that will have to be taken up with a at a different group at I guess . project manager: So I dunno , I I think it's gone okay today , considering the information that we've had at our disposal , and  such . marketing: Maybe the counts wou woulda been better if we had a list or more Yeah , to begin with . project manager: Probably would have mean we could have come up with a lot more solid design in the end , marketing: Yeah . It is very much a pity to  get so far into the stage and then find out that maybe some of your ideas are just a bit too expensive . Are the costs within budget ? Well , industrial designer: project manager: they are now that we have our slightly less than capable product . project manager: We've evaluated it , and we can say that we came out with a value of three . user interface: Actually I want th one thing I would say project manager: user interface:  something that could perhaps be part of the product  the  m product testing market research process would be to  produce mock-ups of both versions and see just how much of a difference the over going over-budget  m would make to sales . project manager: marketing: user interface: Wee cheapie version with the nice bio-morphic rubber . project manager: Right  marketing: project manager: is there anything else that anybody would like to to add ,  anything they think that's not been covered , before I quickly write up a final report . We maybe aren't as happy with it as we'd like to be , but we've got something we think we can maybe stick onto the the market and sell . And of course something we have been avoiding talking about 'cause of we've no information is selling them directly to the manufacturers . project manager:  we've briefly touched on it but we've no more knowledge then there's little we can say on that . So  unless anybody's got anything they'd like to add , we can maybe round this up slightly earlier than we'd need to and then we can finish up the writing and such . marketing: I was actually kind of upset you know at the budget , and that we had to cut a lot of stuff 