Okay  the agenda we're gonna do an opening and then  I'll talk about the minutes from the last meeting , what we d discussed  , then we'll have the prototype presentation and a look at the evaluation criteria . So , starting off with the  last the last one , oh I don't have it here  , but we talked about energy , we're gonna use a kinetic battery  , we want to use a simple chip , because we're not gonna need a a shuffle  , we're gonna need a scroll  , we're choosing a latex case w in fruity colours that's curved and  we're using push buttons  with a supplement of an on-screen menu . user interface: Right , do you wanna start ? industrial designer: Right , well we made three different prototypes and I guess we'll start with with this one .  it's you hold it sort of either like like this in your left hand or you switch it over and  it's easily adaptable to either hand . You can push the buttons with your thumb like a mobile phone , or you can push them with your index finger of your other hand , or even  there's a whole variety , you can hold it like this and press it with your same index finger . We have our up and down buttons , which are also gonna be our channel selectors , and we have our little menu button here . If you push if you're just pushing these normally , they're the menu buttons , if  the volume buttons rather . If we press select three times , the menu with the other features and pro possibly also with your T_V_ channel choices shows up , and you have your five presets down here . industrial designer: or shall I present the Martian ? user interface: Okay , project manager: The little lightning bolt in it , very cute . user interface:  What We call that one the rhombus , marketing: I could project manager: The v the rhombus rhombus ? user interface:  the rhombus . user interface:  this one is known as the potato ,  it's industrial designer: user interface: it's a marketing: user interface: how can I present it ? It's an ergonomic shape , so it it fits in your hand nicely .  the red ones are for  changing channels , channel up and channel down and that's  moves between your favourite channels that you've selected .  this middle button here brings up the on-screen menu and when you're working in the on-screen menu you use the other four buttons to navigate around the menu system and the middle button  to select and that's basically it , that's the potato . project manager:  on , off ? user interface:  that would be one of your channels , basically , project manager: Okay . user interface: so like channel zero would be t to switch switch the machine off , project manager: Yeah we turn it off . marketing: Could the middle button of the on-screen menu function as a power button ? user interface:  not really , industrial designer: user interface: it would make it hard to turn the machine off , to turn your T_V_ off . project manager: industrial designer: And then you have on the sides to make it a little bit more three-dimensional , you have your channel changing , volume changing buttons and your menu button right here in the middle . So , that's for your consideration as well , plus it's an interesting talking point to have standing up . industrial designer: We figured it could stand up like this on your table , if you wanted it to , if I made the bot the bottom flat . marketing: Sorry , what's the yellow one in the middle , industrial designer:  the menu select button .  basically , in terms of making decisions , what we'd need to do is first of all decide on a form  which of the three different shapes we want , then decide what kind of button layout we want , how many buttons , and then to choose what colours we want to make the buttons and if we wanna put any text on the device , like label on the buttons or put a brand name or or a logo on it or whatever . industrial designer: We were we were thinking that normally we'd go for fruity colours , but maybe we're also thinking that your sort of middle aged man , for an example customer , might not want a fruity coloured remote , so m maybe we'd have one version that's a bit toned down , project manager:  'kay . Yeah , something still a little bright to make it hard to lose , but user interface: Would Yeah , but we don't want it to look like a kids' toy . I don't know if you picked up your email , but  the f the  feature that we considered for it not getting lost . Well we were we were talking about that a little bit when we got that email and we think that each of these are so distinctive , that it it's not just like another piece of technology around your house . industrial designer: So we're we're not thinking that it's gonna be as critical to have the loss marketing: But if it's like under covers or like in a couch you still can't see it . project manager: It's really Would it be very difficult to  just have an external device that like I dunno , you tape to your to your T_V_  that when you press it you ha a little light beep goes off ? Do you think that would be conceptually possible ? industrial designer: I think user interface: I think it would be difficult technologically , project manager: user interface: because if your if your remote's lost it's probably under the settee and in that case you can't you can't send an infrared sing signal to it to find it , project manager:  . user interface: s so it's I'm not quite sure how it would work project manager: That's true ,  'kay . user interface: and then I wonder if it's if it's more just a gimmick then anything else .   ho how many times do you really , seriously lose your remote control and would would a device like that actually help you to find it ? industrial designer: There might be something that you can do in the circuit board and the chip to make it make a noise or something , but it would take a lot more development than we have this afternoon . Okay 'cause well , the designs are very bright , so you're right , they're gonna stick out , but  industrial designer: So d do people have a preference as far as feel and functionality ?  . marketing: I feel like this is simil or it's sort of what already exists so if we're trying to think of something sort of like new and fun , even though this is like what you're init I'm initially drawn to , just 'cause it's like comfortable and like not different . I sort of like this one , like I I don't know why , it just it's like small but still sort of like cute looking , I dunno . But I also like the b the side buttons on that one , like I think that's kind of neat . marketing: But I dunno how much any of this has to do with the fashionable , sort of cool looking thing that we also need to focus on . project manager: Could we maybe have like an extra button on the top for on off ? So then w we wouldn't have to have like a dual function ? industrial designer:  yeah , user interface: Yeah , it's possible , yeah , yeah . industrial designer: project manager:   why don't we do a product evaluation using your criteria , if you've developed some ? marketing: Well do we w like I think we're supposed to have one that we do it for . marketing: That was industrial designer: So where marketing: I was a little vague on what exactly I'm supposed to do , but let me I have to like write something on the whiteboard , so . Do you need this industrial designer: project manager: or just write on the white board ? marketing: No , I actually don't have like a PowerPointy thing , project manager: Okay . project manager: It's kind of like  like a joystick kind of thing , industrial designer: Ooh . project manager: Oh it does , industrial designer: project manager: it's kind of like industrial designer: user interface: It's like a deformed foot , I dunno . project manager: There it could have a stem like that , 'cause I do l kind of like the stem . industrial designer: is that where people are leaning then , the potato ? I like the idea of the project manager: I think I'm leaning towards the potato .  in that like i withing menus there are submenus , and so how do you get back to the main menu ? industrial designer:  . industrial designer: Well that on the iPod , for example , you just every time you wanna go back you hit the menu button again and it brings you back one level . project manager: But that has a menu button separate from a select button , whereas if this one's both the menu and the select button ? user interface: Yeah . user interface: This is , it's the up and down buttons are used for scrolling up and down for a list of choices . industrial designer: maybe it can be one of those , if you press down and hold for two seconds , then it brings you back one level or something . Well , as long as we have that in mind as we're designing it still ,  'kay . marketing: Okay , so which one are we sort of roughly looking at to address whether or not it meets our s  necessities , the yellowy one is that industrial designer: The potato ? Are we leaning towards the potato ? user interface: Potato . marketing: So basically what we need to do is some of the things that we've talked about before we need to make sure that that remote actually does conform to the things that we said it was going to . marketing: So what we sort of wanna do is that we each need to separately rank each of the following things and then I'll tabulate an average just to make sure that it does meet that . marketing: So we'll just go through them one at a time and we'll just go around and each of you can tell me on a scale of one to seven with one being really extremely true and seven being not true at all , or false , if the remote that we've created conforms to the following criteria . So like in my opinion the for now at least , the yellow one is probably somewhere in the middle so I'm gonna say it's like a three . marketing: What does each of you project manager: I I kind of think it's it's unique enough that I'd give it a one or a two . Alright , and same sort of scale for functionality , is it functional ? I think it's extremely functional , I'm gonna give it a one . marketing: One ? user interface: I think it's it's functional , it's also pretty basic , so I'll give it a two . I think it'll get everything done , I think it might be a little confusing at first , I don't know if that's gonna be a later one . Well there's some other ones , I will address that , project manager: Okay , then I'm gonna give it a two . Not really ,  not so much , 'cause we we don't have the L_C_D_ screen , we don't have fancy chip . Other than what it looks like , I dunno if it's really project manager: Well , the kinetic battery . But it project manager: But they'll notice it after like a year , marketing: but we know it's there . marketing: And if it's made of like latex , that whole idea , that's pretty cool . 'Cause it we could've picked a lot of features that would've made it really industrial designer: Yeah . I I would say that it's Yeah , like fancy versus creative it's it's different . Everyone else ? user interface: I'd say it's technologically it's not it's not unique ,  it's it's just it is just pushbuttons  , so I I'd give it a four . marketing: Next , is it easy to use ? Just so you know , easy to learn will be separate , project manager:  'kay .  we next wanna see if it has a spongy quality industrial designer: user interface: marketing: and if indeed it's made of latex or rubber I it's spongy all the way . user interface: Yeah marketing: Iain , what do you give it ? user interface: I'd I'd give it a one . marketing: Alright and the next is , does it integrate some notion of fruits and vegetables ? industrial designer: user interface:   . marketing: Well , is it gonna be yellow ? industrial designer: It it might be , 'cause that's our corporate colour , isn't it ? project manager: That's right , yeah , corporate colour , we didn't keep that in user interface: Yeah . project manager: if we I know it would make it a little less c a little more confusing , but if we had all the buttons in black , and a design in and the outside in yellow , that'd be our corporate one and we could also have alternative colours , one a more conservative one , one that's more fruity . user interface: Yeah , project manager:  and can we have like an R_R_ inscribed on the bottom or something ? industrial designer: If we had a yellow Sure . industrial designer: So marketing: Alright , so I think it it's industrial designer: it was inspired by the potato , so I think it's pretty fruity . industrial designer: That's a much more trendy than a potato marketing: What are what's everyone's numbers ? industrial designer: one . industrial designer: marketing: Alright  , and does the design match the appropriate behaviour ? Remember earlier we discussed that people don't use a lot of buttons , that they use the channel flipping and the volume the most . I think we really took that into account a lot , so I'm gonna give it a one . marketing: Okay  , also we talked earlier about R_S_I_ and wanting to prevent  any sort of like Carpal Tunnely kind of thing . Do we think that the latex sort of grip appropriately takes that into account ? I think I'll give it a two , 'cause I almost feel like no matter what you do , something is gonna happen . project manager: And if it's repetitive movement it is gonna be only four buttons that you're constantly pushing , but  marketing:   worth the risk , I think . project manager: I like how it fits in the hand though so I I'd go with a two . Because older people that aren't used to like texting with the thumb might find it a bit at first , project manager:  . I just got mine , I still haven't read the instruction book and I'm doing okay , so project manager:  . industrial designer: The menu system and the the fact that multiple buttons are used for different things might be a bit confusing , but I think if it's one it's one of those things that it might take you five minutes to figure out , but you'll have it afterwards . user interface: I think it it's probably a little harder then most remotes to learn , because you have to you have to use the menu system and you have to tell it what your favourite channels are industrial designer: Oh , good point . user interface: once you've , yeah once you'd learned how to use it , I think it is a lot easier . It's a pretty high learning curve , it'll be easy once you've done it , but industrial designer: user interface: Yeah . Alright ,  also earlier we had something about losing it and so now we're not addressing that at all , so project manager: We we industrial designer: project manager: I think we can kind of say we addressed it with colour , but marketing: Okay , so in terms of not losing it , do you think that on a scale of one to seven , how easy or hard is it to lose ? I'm gonna I'm gonna give it a four , 'cause I think that you can still if it's in between somewhere where you can't see it , you're kind of not gonna find it , project manager: industrial designer:  I'd say I'd give it  a three , I guess it depends on how tidy you are normally . user interface:  I'll give it a five 'cause i it would be easy to lose something like that , yeah . marketing: Alright , we also said simplicity , how w how well does it address just being simple ? industrial designer: Simple to use or simple in design ? Do you know ? marketing: I think overall , 'cause we had said before our two main things were simplicity and fashion , industrial designer: marketing: so those are the next two things we're gonna look at . marketing:  it like wants to be simple but it's not like totally totally simple , so I'm gonna give it a two . industrial designer: user interface: marketing: It's hot ,  it's a mango , come on . marketing:  how fashionable can you make a remote ? I think it's bringing technology and fashion together real really well . user interface: industrial designer: I don't think it's quite as fashionable as my robot remote project manager: I do like  the little Martian one . marketing: And does it meet our like demographic need sort of for international appeal , that whole thing ? Just that it would se serve our audience . marketing: Alright , did anyone have any other features that they think were important that we didn't talk about ? project manager: Well  we didn't we didn't address the fact that it does need to b have a corporate logo , so let's let's make sure we keep that in mind that we ha that one of our colours concepts is corporate and has an R_R_ on it . marketing: And so we're gonna do that , so it will address it , project manager:  I have an Excel sheet that we're actually gonna calculate the cost  , so let me exit out of this first . marketing: Well don't we need plastic , and industrial designer: No , we we the plastic is the plastic for the inside is assumed . project manager: The wood ? industrial designer: Oh , I guess it was rubber rather than latex . marketing: Do we have more than one special colour ? project manager: Yeah , we're using we're gonna need at least two special colours . marketing: Well , but we know that we're having at least three colours , project manager: So let's y say three . marketing: so industrial designer: Well , are we talking about on each colour combination or are we , you know , we'll like we'll have yellow and black . That I thi industrial designer: Or or is white and black , then two more or project manager: I thought that would be under yours . project manager: Maybe the R_R_ will be in colour as well , industrial designer: Alright . Oh , we'll do we wa Are the buttons in special colour , special f I didn't get information on project manager: Oh , marketing: Oh wait . So the case material will just have one colour , right , industrial designer: Well , project manager: but then the buttons will be in special colours ? industrial designer: does it marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: but if we're making multiple varieties of this is where I'm getting confused . project manager: Okay , so each unit will only have one colour on their industrial designer: Alright , and each button s project manager: but the case is could have up to thr  the buttons could ea could be up to three colours , 'cause that how it's designed there . project manager: Special form ? They're all kind of just push button , industrial designer: No , project manager: right ? industrial designer: I think they're fine . project manager: Special material ? industrial designer: Material , we want them rubber as well probably , yeah . Oh do I have to do it per button , do I ? industrial designer: No , I don't think so . project manager: Yeah , what can we reduce ? industrial designer: Okay , let's have our buttons all be one colour . Okay , it's the kinetic battery that's kind of expensive , but we have a simple chip , single curve , marketing: project manager: case material is rubber and it's a special colour , industrial designer: Yeah . How did it get more expensive , what did you just change ? project manager: What ? industrial designer: It was it was thirteen and now it's fifteen . marketing: We industrial designer: user interface: What was our target price again ? project manager: Twelve point five . Satisfaction with for example the room for creativity , leadership , teamwork , the means , any new ideas found . So I guess what we're gonna talk about here is just evaluating how we created this project , the information we got on the news , how we used it , if we were able to  , you know , use our creativity with the information ,  how how well I guess I led it ,  the how well we worked together as a team ,  the digital pens , the whiteboard . user interface: in that we've achieved almost all of the design goals that we've set industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: I think we could've done even better with a little bit more information , project manager: industrial designer: like what's a single-curved case , how many colours , what do colours count project manager: industrial designer: things , but given given what we had I think that we did we did really well . marketing: Yeah ,  if I'd had more market research on the fruits and vegetables , maybe we could've taken that into account . industrial designer: Do you think we could user interface: marketing: No ,  I thought the pen was a little distracting for me personally , like its heaviness , and like just being so conscious of like turning the pages , I dunno . marketing: That was the last one , like I chose not to do a PowerPoint 'cause I didn't think it made sense to , so I liked that I had the option to do that and just to take my own notes and that whole sort of thing . marketing: project manager: I don't think anybody dominated it , which I thought was really good , like each of us was able to  like each of you had your information and I  I tried to facilitate it without like taking over ,  industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: industrial designer: Should we have that somewhere on the packaging ? I have a little R_R_ . project manager: I know , industrial designer: project manager: let's think of it like a little jingle . industrial designer: marketing: I like the R_R_ , that's gonna be etched in . Hopefully not with just my fingernail at some point but  it's quite a useful little gadget . What did we find for new ideas ? project manager: new ideas found ? industrial designer: People should really base their remotes on fruits and vegetables . user interface: industrial designer: That was marketing: Yeah , I didn't even know they existed . industrial designer: I I knew you can get watches that had them , like really quite expensive watches that just never need a battery , 'cause you're always moving your wrist .  so , this is the great product kids , I think we've created something really interesting and that we have a market for it ,  especially if we can produce it at twelve point three industrial designer: Yeah . Make sure in your questionnaire to put down criticisms of both the process and the  the final results and . industrial designer: user interface: project manager: If we could choose more than one , that would be my second choice . industrial designer: marketing: project manager: I'm afraid I would user interface: That's cool . industrial designer: It started because I wanted to have it as st as a stem user interface: Break the stem off . industrial designer: Is it started as a pear , but then it started looking more and more like a Martian project manager: Oh industrial designer: when I put the user interface: marketing: Kind of looks like a penguin , like with no eye . user interface: industrial designer: So are are project manager: user interface: That was bound to happen.$ marketing: Oh , sad . Anything else to say ? marketing: Nothing will come up until after our meeting's supposed to be over , project manager: Alright . project manager: I got more master classes , anybody else wanna like take a master's class ? industrial designer: It's really funny that you got spam in your work emails . marketing: industrial designer: user interface: marketing: industrial designer: marketing: No the first one that you sent like I didn't realise that it was a joke and I was like why did she send this to us ? project manager: Oh industrial designer: marketing: It's very it's very work relevant , project manager: It is . project manager: Yes definitely industrial designer: Let's see , project manager: I'm very sad that I didn't get any links to the corporate website . industrial designer: what did I get through the corporate website ? It's just inspiration about circuit boards . project manager: I love Excel , marketing: Here , like , basically project manager: it's one of my favourite programs . marketing: it's like inspiration , basically I'm gonna give you two sentences on fashion and that kind of thing , see . industrial designer: Yeah , my inspiration from from last time is the in interior of a remote control being taken apart bit by bit , talking about circuit boards . industrial designer: Now I have all about circuits and chips and transponders and I wrote it all down , because I thought it would be relevant , like all the different parts of the inside of a remote control , but then they're like , you don't actually need this you just need to talk about the case . marketing: That's like mine it was like , would you prefer an L_C_D_ screen or a multifunction remote control ? And then it didn't have like any kind of table , like awesome , I'm glad they asked that question and didn't report the result . industrial designer: and user interface: We didn't we didn't use the whiteboard that much . project manager: Although I don't see how we could have very l at least for me user interface: industrial designer: I yeah . If I'd gotten pictures of the different parts of the case , the different looks of the case , I would have probably drawn them up , project manager:  . industrial designer: but marketing: 'Cause we weren't like voting on anything and I think usually , like whiteboards are good , you know like crossing out ideas , or like if we had had like a brainstorming period . industrial designer: Yeah , we could've put our brainstorming stuff up there rather than just talking about it , project manager: project manager: And with and with the PowerPoint that we can all look at , like you can do all those things pretty much on PowerPoint industrial designer: I think if you had a larger group marketing: Get crazy . marketing: And these might've made us more willing to like take notes than to like write up them here , project manager:  . industrial designer: We if we were all gonna stay in here all the time , then having the notes up on the whiteboard would've been alright , project manager: project manager: Now when you were  creating your  prototypes here , did you work together or did you like do separate projects ? user interface:  we we worked together , industrial designer: Yeah . user interface:  but we were making like we sort of made different shapes and then discussed how the how the buttons might work , project manager: industrial designer: So it was a bit of both really , we just kind of started out by each taking a colour of clay and just fooling around with it and I came up with that rhombus shape project manager: industrial designer: and he came up with the sort of potatoey , mangoey shape , and then just went from there really . user interface: I think we did well in first of all giving our meetings the time , project manager: It's kinda fun . user interface: and second we actually we we did a good job of making firm decisions at the ends of the meetings . user interface: I know what happens sometimes is that you tend to sort of have meetings and then people sorta drift away without anything actually really being decided . user interface: But I think here we got we got clear and and decisive decisive points at the end of the meetings , so that we we knew where to go on from there . industrial designer: Yeah , I was quite worried at the end of the last meeting that we weren't getting we didn't really have enough information to make firm decisions , project manager: I'm not usually a very decisive person , so it helped to have people say this needs to be done in five minutes . project manager: I found that we did we could have used another five or ten minutes sometimes in the meetings . project manager: Yeah I think the last time we had a lot of information , but at the same time not quite enough , industrial designer: Yeah , project manager: you know what  , industrial designer: Yeah . And I I felt the first two meetings , that I was coming in with no information , project manager:  . industrial designer: and not sort of made me really like , ooh I don't know , throwing together PowerPoint out of no no information and then last time it was like the opposite . project manager: It was interesting what came out like later , like as I was doing the when I was doing the breakdown on the agenda that they gave me  , that more points came out from your presentation even . I'm a little I am a little disappointed that we didn't do a  something for losing the remote , because that was kind of a big point . that was something like in order to talk about that we would've had to have actual knowledge about circuit boards and things like project manager: About yeah . marketing: Well the problem was , even when we just were creating from the Excel file , there wasn't like a option to select to somehow have it included , project manager: marketing: There was no way for us to have project manager: Considered the re industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: Well marketing: project manager: it's interesting that they industrial designer: I think we really got into it ,  I got into it as the day went on and I got really like , ooh I'm designing a remote control , I dunno if that's just me , project manager: - , yeah . industrial designer: but project manager: It was interesting though that they put that fifty percent of people say they have frustration with losing their remote and yet they didn't provide us with information to  we weren't provided with information to discuss that . project manager: I know that like people people have like things they can put on their keys that you press it and it'll beep , but I but I'm sure that would require some kind of technology industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: that I just don't know what it is , but industrial designer: I think there are some of those like infomercial remotes that have things so you won't lose them .  we were talking about it and like i in my household at least , there's only about two places that the remote is ever project manager:  . industrial designer: 'cause there's only one T_V_ and there's only like three chairs . marketing: That's like saying you're never gonna lose your keys , and I always do , anyway . marketing: like you just will forget that or you like put it down somewhere that like made sense and then not remember , project manager:  . project manager: It d yeah , it depends on how organised you are personally , but industrial designer: Yeah , or like I guess what the setup of the house is too . industrial designer: But ,  I am notorious for losing my keys , project manager: industrial designer: I just I guess I've just never lost the remote . industrial designer: You you're taking stuff from a bag and putting them in the refrigerator and then go back to my room . marketing: I always do that , leaving it in my coat , and then like using a different coat . industrial designer: But I guess it's 'cause we don't carry remotes around that much . Maybe with our little robot one we could've had him have a robot , alien , pear , whatever he is , have a little voice like , I am located marketing: industrial designer: Oh a G_P_S_ system , internal G_P_S_ . project manager: Or or like some crazy like electro-magnet , that you push it and it'll go zoom to the T_V_ and stick there . user interface: project manager: industrial designer: Just if you like you'd have a remote for your remote , that'll . project manager: Well , but if you could attach them to the T_V_ , then you can . I decided to you know how I sent you the email saying that PowerPoint minutes will be complimentary , rather than like repeating them . project manager: Just gonna make I'm making full minutes , so that it'll include all of the agenda and all that . project manager: But I didn't have like information to sloth through either , so industrial designer: Yeah , I guess How much of your PowerPoint was already done for you , every meeting . Yeah , I didn't even think about adding slides , 'cause I would just get slides with titles on them project manager:  . project manager: Well , the thing was they would provide y an agenda with s like several points , but it wouldn't have a slide for each point . project manager: I know personally when I do PowerPoint , that's what I do and so I had it once , even if it was just like the title of it , like the three presentations , and I would do your three . marketing: You have you have to have the slogan on it or can it just be like project manager: The slogan on it ? industrial designer: No , no , definitely not . industrial designer: No , I don't think we need to user interface: project manager: I think we just need the  the R_R_ , industrial designer: I think the R_ and R_ , especially if the yellow and black one . project manager: Yeah , I was just kinda going by the web page , 'cause they didn't give me any clear , like yellow , grey , or . marketing: project manager: Wasn't it interesting that  I thought it was interesting that our market marketing  expert did not agree with the marketing  marketing: Yes . project manager: the marketing choices , industrial designer: user interface: project manager: you know , like industrial designer: marketing: I will project manager: that was a bit of a conflict . marketing: I just feel like if you're really doing like a a really big market evaluation , you wouldn't just have like one set of source , industrial designer: marketing: it's kind of an they were so not backed up , it would just be a sentence like we did a survey , this is what people said . industrial designer: I guess it i it sort of a grey , isn't it ? Yellow and grey , but then the slogan's in blue 