project manager: And you are ? In the project ? industrial designer: in the project I'm supposed to be the technic . user interface: My name is Hamed Getabdar , and  I'm going to be Interface Designer in this project . project manager: So , so today we are doing a short meeting to present the project , so  We are gooding we are going to present the tool we are we are going to use during all this project . We are talking about the project plan , and we are going to to discuss about st our first ideas and so on , and , yeah . So it should be , of course , new and original , and  it should be trendy , and user friendly . So w it's we will try to do our best , and hopefully come with something very new and that people want to buy . So ,  So what's  what are we going to do during this all this project ? So it's more like we are going to do inv individual work all in o in o our specialities and we are going to meet each other quite often to discuss and to find a good way .  so now we are going to to get used t to to the tools we are going to use all during all this project . project manager: For example we can try to write what is our our favourite animal and write the f our favourite characteristics about it . Well sh should I draw the picture of the animal ? project manager: Yeah , yeah , you can draw the picture , of course . I had to first  write it down because I am not absolutely sure if I can draw it , but ah . Can you recognise it as a bird ? project manager: marketing: industrial designer: Okay it's your turn to marketing: Okay , okay . project manager: user interface: marketing:  I probably like cats the most because they're cuddly and furry and  playful . C could we put it here , to make it as straight as possible ? user interface: project manager: industrial designer: Ah probably not . Should I clean ? marketing: user interface: Okay , I think like horses  because they are strong and beautiful , so if I want to write it here , I think I can . industrial designer: You won't draw them , or ? project manager: You can draw it , if you want . I'm shameful project manager: marketing: Oh that's good , it's good . project manager: so we can start today to have a first idea of what we want to do what are our experiments with remote control , and any idea ? So , if you have some experience , good or bad , with remote controls you can share it and say what you f what is your idea . marketing: Well , from experience ,  I've had remote controls in the past that have had very they've had lots and lots of buttons and they've been very small , and it's been very hard to to to use , because there's so many buttons , and you know it's very hard to see which buttons do what , and the buttons are very small and very hard to press .  and and normally you only every use , you know , on a T_V_ remote you only ever use , mostly , you know , f four or f six buttons .  first would be that in current remote controls there is no back light , so if you are if you are  playing with this in the dark room it's it's probably worth to to have something like  back light . industrial designer: And maybe it could be also dependant on the the amount of of light in the room , so that if if it's in the day it doesn't need to be back lighted because it works on the battery , so . And the second thing , f second point from me would be that in a normal remote control there is  there are two buttons for volume control . marketing: Is that because the of the discrete volume levels , or is that industrial designer: Yeah , but I can reach In  one second I can mute it down , or or make a high volume . project manager: Are you not afraid that if you take your remote control you can move the slide and it could the the volume can go up very quickly marketing: Yeah . project manager: and it can industrial designer: If it drops to the floor then it starts to scream . project manager: Yeah , also if y when you take the the remote control , for example on the table , you take it and you push the button and everything is very loud , and industrial designer: Yeah , f It depends what what you feel about that . industrial designer: Yeah but we can we can think of these things afterwards , but if you have some more notes on that . project manager: Yeah so you can user interface:  I Yeah , project manager: Do you have something ? user interface: just a simple experience . I  I prefer  remote control working with radio waves , because remote control working with infra-red rays you should you should you should keep it in a specific direction and then try it hard to tune .  the the interface interface developer will work on the on the design of the remote control , start to to have new idea and industrial designer: Which i which is Hamed , ? project manager: read about industrial designer: Okay . project manager: So ,  marketing: project manager: For the User Interface Designer , which is Hamed  , user interface: project manager: And for the Marketing  Manager , I dunno , okay , which is Bob ,  you are going to try to to find the user requirements f  for the remote control 