project manager: So marketing: So project manager: I hope you're ready for this  functional design meeting .   we want to know to at the end to know the new project's requirement so we need  to know the the user  needs that we want to fulfil to fulfil the from the technical part we want to know how it going to work and  third part  I don't remember marketing: project manager: which is not very good . marketing: So I dunno if I can do that like this ? Yeah ? So it's being modified . I am the expert in marketing and I want to tell you about what people  s want and  like and dislike in remote controls , and I hope this is going to help you to to design it correctly . marketing: So basically  what I suggest is that  instead of deciding ourself what what could be and what should be a good  remote control , let's ask people who are users of remote controls how they feel about w the current remote controls , what they like , what they don't like and  and what they do with them by the way industrial designer: marketing: because they are supposed to be useful . So we've we've conducted a a survey on on the use of  remote controls and I'd like to show you some of the results we found on this survey . Yeah , so basically what we found was that  there are several things that the user don't like in remote controls . Current remote controls as you know they're the same as this one  they're not nice colour , not nice shape ,  they're all the same , and they're not l good looking .  what is interesting is that in fact it seems that they were people are ready to pay for nice and look and fancy looking  remote control , so I think we should probably spend lots of time in and effort in that  . And the other thing is that  the the current remote controls are not so easy to use and it it the the current  facilities that they offer do not match what people really want to use their remote controls . For instance  we see that  they zap very often so I think this is a very  important  functionality that it should be easy for them to to zap  in one way or another . And most of the buttons  on  current remote controls are not used , so I think we should design something where some of the buttons which are those that are used should be easier to see and use than others that only a couple of people are using . Now people are very frustrated w with their remote controls industrial designer: marketing: and they for instance  they don't even find it project manager: marketing: it's it's often lost somewhere in the in the in your home and nobody knows where it is . marketing: Maybe if we have something where we could ask the remote control please , where are you ? industrial designer: Yeah .  of course phone you can always phone your phone project manager: marketing: but you can't phone your your remote control . industrial designer: marketing: And because of the fact that there are so many buttons in these remote controls that nobody use , industrial designer:  . marketing: in fact they don't even know how to use them , so most of the the people say they they don't know how to they to use properly their r remote controls . And  they are bad for R_S_I_ but  I don't remember what is R_S_I_ .  nobody has any idea about that ? Well I'll check  with my industrial designer: Yeah , it's electromagnetic waves or something kind of maybe  effect . marketing: I think it's a technical thing industrial designer: Yeah , marketing: which our industrial designer: because infrared uses some electromagnetic technology , project manager: industrial designer: and those waves have high marketing: So , it seems that it's a lot of people for a concept that we don't know user interface: But twenty six percent , do you know project manager: Or something we don't know . marketing: So anyway user interface: One of us marketing: that's for what the biggest frustration  of the user and  industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: s  functions that may be  used by u the user in the current  available  remote controls and  well the tables look very nice to read but what is important is to understand that the power button is not used often because in general you use it only once per session , but it is very relevant . project manager: marketing: Ah now I remember what is R_S_I_ project manager: marketing: it's repetitivity stress injury . marketing: I continue my presentation so yeah , user interface: marketing: channel selection is  very important , very often used . It seems that people find teletext teletext  relevant , even if I personally never use it but seems that it's average relevant at least , so . project manager: I have been told that we  don't consider teletext , that it's out of date now because of internet . marketing: I can tell you that  in a l in a scale between one and ten relevant  not relevant to relevant people scored a six on this , which is not as  these these two one were had I think ten I think . marketing: Not very relevant , so if if there are good reason not to put teletext it's okay but just know that people find it somehow relevant . project manager: marketing: That's for the main functions I think and  then we can ask  ourself  what people don't have that may be useful . One of the thing the trend  that  you are probably aware of is the possibility the eventual possibility of having speech recognition in your remote control , so you wouldn't have to tap tap in your buttons but just tell your remote control or whatever you need you have what you want . So we've conducted a survey about  whether people would like or not to have  this kind of  functionality in their remote control and as we can see it really depends on the age . marketing: So now it really depends on the kind of  targeting  wha who are we targeting with this remote control ? industrial designer: 'Cause marketing: I think if we are targeting young people then  it's probably something we have to consider . If we are targeting you very old people this is something they really don't know why they this should be so now project manager: And  I don't have any conclusion , I didn't have time the meeting was very tight , so that's basically my findings . marketing: Yeah one question , user interface:  you are a Market Expert marketing: yeah ? user interface: so marketing: I am . user interface: should we aim at the young people or not ? marketing: I think we should aim at the young people . marketing: In general the the early adopters of a new device are young people , less than more than user interface: Okay , then teletext is used less . project manager: So  now I think it's the turn of the the I'm not sure  marketing: project manager: Of the technical function , so  marketing: So I think it's you , huh ? industrial designer:  it's marketing: No ? user interface: That's me . project manager: what effect industrial designer: techni function of marketing: No , user requiremen industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: I have to do working design so  project manager: So you're user interface: That's but this but number three , yes . marketing: user interface: However ,   Project Manager asked me to give you some presentation about technical functions design .  , as I'm a more an artist marketing: project manager: user interface: that's gonna be less technical functions but more User Interface and current intentions and everything which is linked with this . marketing: project manager: user interface: 'Cause current remote controls they are never easy enough to use . marketing: project manager: user interface: It's quite a standard one , but it's not from a T_V_ , it's from a much easier device like air conditioning or something . Only buttons we need is on off , volume , channels and maybe some options or something else , and please make a click , compared to this one marketing: industrial designer: It's user interface: which one would you prefer ? I guess this . marketing: I would say the simplest one as long as there are the  I find the buttons that I need every time I need a button . marketing: industrial designer: Maybe it can be yeah middle of like , between those two user interface: Yeah , and our method is going to be , provide simple industrial designer: li project manager: Oh sorry . user interface: Our question of the style , we should remember that our company marketing: user interface: puts fashion into electronics and we should never forget about it . user interface: it's very well , it's it's not an easy field to to play , you know ? So be simple . marketing: user interface: For personal preferences I think that to make a baby-proof remote control it got to be a titanium . project manager: industrial designer: marketing: user interface: It's a really good style , it going to be look like like this . And all these buttons should be easy to find and to click , 'cause when you watch a movie and you want to change something , you always try to find a good button and click it , but you should do it by touching it and finding it easily just by touch . So Press project manager: user interface: I would propose this concept for design , just few buttons , a screen with a back light which can change colours , titanium industrial designer:  . And let us include two nice features into this device , first , power on and off can be made fully automatic . When you go to the sofa , take your control and point it to the T_V_ , project manager: It's off . marketing: And when does it turn off ? user interface: When you don't touch the control but you go out of the For for enough time marketing: Oh so you have a user interface: like  you marketing: sensing sensor machine that  knows user interface: It's a question to our technical design , our two engineers . industrial designer: project manager: marketing: Tech user interface: And another nice feature that I would like to implement is  volume control . Suppose you set u you set up some volume and then you move out or you move to the other corner of the room and take your control with you . Like , you want to to change the chair or you want to move to the armchair from the sofa or something , and then the volume changes . user interface: you just control the marketing: According to your distance to and the angle maybe , if you have a stereo system . So marketing:  I'm not sure about the screen , wha what is the use usefulness of the screen ?  is it a touch screen by the way ? user interface: I think it can be just a menu which can be controlled with a left , right , up , down and enter . user interface: which makes it easier to find , and each can it can respond for your voice , like it can turn on the light for you just to f find it easily , yeah ? project manager:  . project manager:  I see that you target  several s application not only T_V_ but i like we talk about  universal  remote control . user interface: Let it be universal , so you want to use it for your hi-fi system . S user interface: All the rest , we sh we'll put it into this menu on the screen . Since we were targeting a really soon   date for the the the  i issuing of this  remote control I think we will only concentrate on T_V_ for the moment and then maybe m make it more generalised yeah . marketing: So for instance if I want to go to directly to channel twenty five , how would I do can I do that with this ? user interface:  twenty five . marketing: that's not so easy to go just next next next when you have hundreds of channels . marketing: Or is it ? user interface: Basically you use just four or five channels , right ? marketing: Most people user interface: Yeah . user interface: So  set up your T_V_ set like channels that you use they're one , two , three and five , and you will never have to go to a twenty fives channel . marketing: In fact in in one  remote control that I've seen , instead of doing that d you could just say these are the cha ch channel three , twenty eight , forty eight and  sixty four are those that I want to by cycled with my next button . industrial designer: But even we can have some  L_C_D_ display , like you can  de you can just button the number marketing: Go to channel twenty five . industrial designer: and then it go marketing: One thing is that as I said in my presentation people really do like to z zap . marketing: So even if they are only watching four or five channels , I think they want to zap out of the one hundred channels , user interface: But otherwise like we can put some display on numbers and then they can just press suppose two five they just press two and five marketing: So it would be industrial designer: and then marketing: Okay . industrial designer:  if you want to go for a universal then we ought to limit for functions for each of our devices . user interface: Could we carry out some research if we w really need this , like how many people really need to go to channel number twenty five and then to sixty four ? marketing: Well I could could  have a look at that maybe . I am an expert in  industrial design of all electronic devices and I previously devised many  like digital calculators and electronic calculators . Well , as you know the basic function of remote control is sending some message to the the device , like T_V_ or V_C_R_ or D_V_D_ player etcetera . So we will have a p portable device which will send message to the the main device like T_V_ . So we need to have some energy source to do what to do the functions , what we want on this portable device . And usually this so to do these functions we need an interface , which basically some kind of pressing buttons or keys or like moving jack or something like that . And then these messages these key buttons can be transferred into some kind of message and then it will process by the chip and then it will generate some information to the main device . So , basically we need  since we are focusing on our interface device remote control mainly the energy source like the battery and then we have user interface like  the keypad and you know buttons we want , and then we have some chip , it's mainly digital signal processing chip because since we are I am one doing mostly digital  devices we ought to have some kind of processor which take care of all these functions and put it in some digital format . And then we'll have the infrared L_E_D_ source which sends the information to the main device . Then we'll have switch in our main   device to do particular operations , and we ought to do different codes for different T_V_s , project manager: industrial designer: so some T_V_s will have different encryption codes for doing s s  channel changing and these things . industrial designer: Yeah yeah , because the people don't use one particular brand so project manager:  . industrial designer: So we need to check their specifications and do their  encryption that's passing information to the T_V_ device . industrial designer: Then , components , so we have the main  energy source and then we will have some buttons and then we will have infrared  source and then we have some inside some chip in in the device . And since I also want to know feedback from our Marketing Expert and User Interface , project manager: Yeah , I'm sure , because since our User Interface speech recognition and also Marketing Expert for the speech recognition is really handy , project manager: industrial designer: we can have another , like  s simple speech recogniser on our D_S_B_ chip . industrial designer: Since we have some kind of  energy this is our this normal battery , so this battery , once you s switch on it will take power and we can have some speech recognition and in our g generally small digital signal processing chip so that and we will put  the small  simple speech recogniser project manager: On industrial designer: and we can also train the speech recogniser for particular user so you just project manager:  train it , okay . No , even in you can find even simple mobile device like any mobile brand you can have these voice dialers or these things , yeah . marketing: Think of a all these young people who would love to say that this remote control only works for them , user interface: Okay . project manager: And what about the price of this component ? industrial designer: So  maybe we can make  it in five Euros and even less than that , project manager: It  okay . industrial designer: because we have only very few words like like power , switch on or some like project manager: industrial designer: then we'll have something like this  we'll have volume and then we will have s particular channel , so users can listen . marketing: The user  will just be able to say  please can you  pump up the vo pump up the volume project manager: industrial designer: Ye No , yeah , a user can use any kind of sender but they should have this prompt volume and then marketing: Okay . industrial designer: yeah volume and decrease or increase , so we try to only recognise those words marketing: Okay . industrial designer: and and because we can't really say user to say same wording marketing: Couple of words . industrial designer: And then we can have channel they can say , okay I want eight , because we don't know like users have different programmes ,  they don't really follow same channels strict  so we just want channel number , project manager: Okay . industrial designer: we don't want like B_B_C_ or C_N_N_ or something else marketing: Of course  it has to be industrial designer: because it will be complicated so we'll have only these three  main basic  anyway volume is not really speech recognition problem , marketing: Okay . user interface: No you know it's a conceptual question , 'cause now I see th this the picture in front of my eyes like a user taking his remote control and shouting into it , volume up , volume up , project manager: marketing: But then I think you you user interface: and and he's coming you know , he's really annoyed with this , down , up , down . project manager: marketing: First of all I I think this is not  functionality that it is going to be instead of using the buttons . industrial designer: Yeah actually we we can have one switch to like  switch on , on and off , this processor and This really , suppose like here we have our main chip which controls power , volume and this part and this D_S_P_s . industrial designer: Again , this to have some interaction like suppose people use D_S_P_ then it particularly sends some information to the chip like in some form , like volume and like this key . industrial designer: So it may not be like very expensive , because since we are only focusing on T_V_ remote control marketing: T_V_ . industrial designer: so and we have only few things here project manager: Sho to to train , okay . user interface: Like , if I want to put volume up I like do  I take my remote control do like something like marketing: user interface: roll 'em up industrial designer:    this point we didn't consider user interface: or roll 'em down . marketing: Very expensive , industrial designer: because it's it's very expensive marketing: no ? industrial designer: because v our target is only like twelve point five Euros project manager: And well , what about the idea of automatic on off on the button , yeah . user interface:  why ? industrial designer: and user interface: That's just industrial designer: Yeah , marketing: And volume control . industrial designer: even automatic on off is also a bit problematic , because it different criteria for different people like so suppose people are really  they just  they don't touch the remote and  y you don't know how much time you need to switch on or switch off marketing: So but  industrial designer: and marketing: Sh should we target a a user personalised   remote control ? So in in a given room there might be more than one remote control . Yeah that can be possible , especially for power settings , so user can say okay , suppose they're watching a tennis match or something then they can say okay  after one hour I marketing:  . project manager: Wouldn't that make  arguments ? industrial designer: They can make marketing: Yeah , of course . project manager: I want  user interface: industrial designer: Yeah we can have marketing: That's no problem , we will sell more . project manager: And we can increase this the strength user interface: We got a really good Market Expert . project manager: y you can buy one with user interface: Let's send more , let's sell more . project manager:  industrial designer: project manager:  I think , okay , we're just on time . project manager: Then we will work again for thirty minutes individual work , and  we will  meet again for the next meeting , and  in this one want to to be more focused on the individual actions the  on the components so  you will focus on the component concept  industrial designer: Yeah yeah . project manager:  of course the U_I_D_ Mark will be  focused on the user interface concept industrial designer: Mark will project manager: and  our m Market Expert Sammy Benjo  on the trend watching . And we have  maybe we have to we say , only for T_V_ , not teletext ? marketing: project manager:  I think automatic on off control  it's not possible . user interface: should it be equipped with the  , with  speakers ? marketing: Speakers in the remote cont user interface: Like , you want to find it , you shout marketing: Oh yeah . project manager:  yeah user interface: control , project manager: that's user interface: and it answers is I'm here ? Or marketing: It just beeps . project manager: yeah ? Think industrial designer: Yeah , especially the power , it really consumes project manager: -huh . industrial designer: because it should be all the time on and project manager: And  marketing: Well I I heard of devices where you just  whistle them and and they project manager: And it's answered . industrial designer: But it's a good feature I guess yeah we need to think about more how to incorporate it . user interface: Just don't interfere with other devices like 'cause like all these people do that their lights are turning on with clapping . marketing: Oh that's e that already exists user interface: Yeah , I got it at my home , like . Good project manager: So , marketing: we're done ? project manager: yeah , industrial designer: Yeah 