And the characteristics of this new remote control should be original and trendy and of course user user friendly . industrial designer: project manager: user interface: industrial designer: Well , I think we should set the the points to to drive the project and  user interface:  . B did you send us an email about this ? project manager: not yet , user interface: industrial designer: project manager: but if you want user interface: Yeah , we we received an email about this  d designs . project manager: Do you want do you want me to send you a mail ? industrial designer: user interface: Ah it's Okay . marketing: I think it's for your guys to how to design it all the aspects so you need that information . user interface: 'Kay , we can project manager: So there are so we have three user interface: So there are three kinds of designs , that's all . project manager: So , who will be the the responsible for the functional design ? Any any volunteer ? industrial designer: I think our  responsibilities will be assigned when we in our mail we received from the account manager . user interface: Are you using the you are doing the in industrial designer: Yeah I I'm I'm Well , maybe we have okay so I industrial design . It was a little confusion about my  project manager: user interface: Ah industrial designer: but it's alright . industrial designer: Well , I think we can have a little discussion about what has to be done project manager: industrial designer: and what are your ideas about the project manager: About the design or Maybe we'll discuss this later , no ? industrial designer: Well , w we want to have a new re remote control for for T_V_ distribution I guess . industrial designer: Yeah , I dunno I project manager: And of course it should not be very costly . industrial designer: Well I I think that Norman and I would think about  the technical points and  we should discuss it in the next meeting , or user interface: Need to collect information .  , what is most important in a in a remote control ? What is the most important function aspect ?  . project manager: You won't user interface: Or or you can say for example ,  I want  to list all the programme tonight . Y you know , instead of  remote control it's doing the some searching for you , so you don't have to look for the channel you want . project manager: I I think if we include a lot of technology on the remote control it will be very costly . user interface: No , because no , project manager: S user interface: it's not very a lot . industrial designer: I I think if you want t to choose  from a list of programme or or something like that you you may have to to use  w  I dunno marketing: I'm a okay . marketing:  the main  function of remote control is to have something in the hand project manager: In the hand . marketing: If we are going to add a speech interface , I'm not sure with trendy slim size of the remote control it would be able to put a speech recog user interface: Yeah . marketing: if you want to put a speech recognition system f interface for that I think the T_V_ itself could have it . industrial designer: marketing:  we have some or something , different technology but project manager: This is it's user interface: Yeah , yeah . But th the main idea I wanted to s I wanted to say is that  there should be a function , instead of choosing the ch T_V_ channel , there's a option you can choose , either T_V_ channels or or pr or the or the contain or the contents of the programme . industrial designer: Yeah , yeah it's it's a good idea it's a good idea project manager: industrial designer: but I I think that technically it would be  a little bit   more tricky to to achieve this than just to user interface: No . They they are they are they are available in X_M_L_ format or whatever the format . user interface: And then there's there are only six buttons for six categories , or sev seven . So I just choose the category one and you reuse the same button , for example to to choose among the the sorted list the programme you want , so you don't have to choose among hundred channels , if you have hundred channels , you just have six buttons , seven buttons . industrial designer: Well I I I I think that j just by using navigation buttons and the user interface on the screen we are able to  navigate  through the Well channel programme or contents or in an easy way , so project manager: This is good idea . Yeah , so you don't have to display here , just display on the T_V_ screen , right ? industrial designer: Yeah in the dis display on the T_V_ screen user interface: Good idea . industrial designer: and just  with the with your remote control would just navigate through the f user interface: I think I think that will be revol revolutionary . project manager: industrial designer: user interface: Because all the T_V_  the the remote control have all numbers , lots of buttons and then you dunno what to choose in the end . So I think for for the technical points we have to to to check how to gather the data from programme or contents and all this stuff user interface: Okay . project manager: So we have five minutes to user interface: Ah w w we have sometimes to use the white-board . project manager: Ah you can y you can you can use it if you so , can we industrial designer: user interface: Five minutes . marketing: And another interesting idea for this would be to have an light adaptation system depending upon the picture of user interface: Okay . marketing: So , if you're watching a movie and suddenly there is a dark  some dark scene , the lights adapt themself . industrial designer: Oh right so user interface: Okay , do you want to have a conceptual remote control there , or you just want to put the function in ? project manager: Yeah . project manager: Be before before writing you can  sit and that says what we what we said user interface:  . So so the most functional des  the most important function is to ch choo buttons to choose the content . The user can choose w which one they want , right ? industrial designer: Yeah , by content or by channel , user interface: By content or by channel . user interface: Okay , so technically how the problems that how to do it is to how to get the content . industrial designer: I think i it's not very difficult to to browse by channel but it's a little bit tricky to browse by contents so user interface: Okay . And  industrial designer: I think that's the the things to do user interface: The main thing . user interface: So we are we'll discuss it we will get some information in the next meeting , so for now we get  the funct this is the functional designer ? That's the first aspect . project manager: So maybe we'll meet in maybe five minutes ? And we'll discuss the other other aspects 