So , we will first start by summarizing the  the previous meeting and the decision we've taken .  I will take notes during this meeting so  that you can  look at my  folder to see the summary of this meeting afterwards . We'll then t take decision in concert and then   we will  define the nest next task , to have to be done before the next meeting . We have also  the lightening feature for the remote control to be easy to find , and for fast development and low cost we have decided to have no L_C_D_ no voice features . So the conceptual specification by Industrial Designer , the specification of the U_I_ by or U_I_ user interface: Abdul al-Hasred is my name . industrial designer: I_D_ you want ? project manager: Maybe I can switch slide  on your request . industrial designer: and I think a remote control is , as I s mentioned previously , you just have a a very simple chip and the  the user interface is just done usually by push button and in our case we are using a  a wheel control . So   I was looking basically for that chip , which is  very very standard , and  I just looked for the wheel sensor and the standard push button . The push button are usually extremely cheap , but I just have one problem and this is related with the wheel sensor , which seems to be quite expensive . industrial designer: And I think we if we could just talk about that if we really need a wheel sensor or if we can not if if we could combine something with the push button . Yeah project manager: So will will will this with  including all possible things , so buttons , wheel and the chip , be  lower than twelve Euros to produce ? industrial designer: I I th But I don't think that  we should We should talk about  the design of the box also which needs some money . project manager: Okay user interface: Also have to say industrial designer: But user interface: Did you receive the email about the voice recognition ? industrial designer:  that's all user interface: No ? project manager: You received something industrial designer: yeah . But I guess it could be project manager: And could it be adapted ? user interface: I guess it's possible . project manager: Okay and there can  recognize some commands and stuff ? user interface: Yeah you reco recognize commands and you can record new commands and stuff , so if they already have it as  as a chip project manager: Okay . project manager: Okay maybe we can just  listen to this presentation and then take decision later on according to those news . industrial designer: Yeah but I think it's yeah Sorry , I haven't written my personal references .  the I I just want to mention the the problem of the the r wheels sensor which is much more expensive than any push button , project manager: Okay .  , what is the purpose of the light ? industrial designer: Just to to make something which is  slightly more design that  a squarey box with a rubber user interface: Is project manager: You can easily find the button in the dark or so ? user interface: But But in th in the dark  Yeah but is going to be always turned on , the light ? project manager: It will be turned on when the when the user move the remote control I think , no ? user interface: But if you move it then you have it , you don't need to find it . user interface: But if you move it then you have to have some sensor to when you move it to detect your movement . industrial designer: I don't think that this is really expensive , but at the end this is plenty of unexpen eh very cheap devices but  the bill starts to be user interface: Okay . Yeah , but I expected also the wheel would be cheap but you tell me that it is very expensive so , industrial designer: First of all I was thinking to have a a continuous light user interface: yeah . industrial designer: and you w when t you you you you press the on button you have the light on your remote control , when you want to turn off your device user interface:  . project manager: But it can be  battery consuming , no ? To have the light always on ? industrial designer: Yeah , a little bit . user interface: So I just look at some current designs  on the web , of usually more complicated remote controls . And let's look at two of them because  th even though they have many buttons they look quite simple . And in our case we just  reject the buttons what we don't need and it become even simpler . project manager: And also does it  fit well in hand ? Because it was  th your wrist problem with the usage . We have all these buttons as you can see , but most of them , we just need the ones in the middle . user interface: So , from the bottom or whatever is there ,  the  the numbers and then the top ,  until the ten also , this middle part , project manager: Yeah . So it's basically more or less how we would like it , with a big volume control , big channel control , and mute and power , yeah ? project manager: Yeah . user interface: So basically , w software we will build will look more or less the same as these two . user interface: Yeah , if you have , for example I think that the volume and the buttons that are there on the top are not very easy to reach with your thumb . Will be down or user interface: So that they're separate a bit , project manager: Okay .  and it's easy to press the other the big buttons , but  , it's not that difficult to press the the channel buttons either . Usually what I have noticed that people put the plastic cover on things that you normally don't mess with , like buttons for t  tuning the channels and stuff like that . user interface: We could use the some wheels can be pushed down , could use the push down of the wheel for the record if we want . user interface:  so we could just basically use one just wheel and  user could use just the wheel to do everything with the channels in that case . So we can move to the Is there any question ? For designer of user interface ? or we can move to the next part , maybe , and discuss afterwards ? Okay . marketing: Can I ? So now the recent investigation we we have done fo of the remote control  . So , the most important aspect for remote controls is to be fancy look and feel and not current functional look and feel . marketing: And the third most important aspect is to to is that the co remote control should be easy to use . And there is a fashion watchers in Paris and Milan that have detected the following trends ,  fruits and vegetables will be the most important theme for clothes , shoes , and furnitures . So , maybe if our remote control have to be a fruit form or vegetable form project manager: Okay . project manager: marketing:  I don't know which material can be spongy , project manager: Yeah . marketing: and if you project manager: This is good also for user interface: Well , wou wou I think we can certainly just put the electronics in a spongy thing , industrial designer: Yeah . We could say that if you throw it , you have a sensor , and you throw it and hits the television and turns it off . And you know here the more iz important aspect is the fancy look and feel , after is  technological innovative , and after the easy to use . marketing: Yeah that's why project manager: Has it ? marketing: Yeah that's why I think we have to keep that if it's possible . You know the pear , is like that and it's it's easy to to have in in hand project manager: Yeah , and it's ergonomic as well . D D Is is there anything you want to add ? user interface: Is there any fruit that is spongy ? marketing: project manager: I don't think so . I think we we can have like yeah a pear is good , fit well , or banana as you told . industrial designer: And for maybe look and feel , what about a a piece of ice , with blue L_E_D_ inside ? project manager: But that's not in the trend . user interface: You can make it  marketing: project manager: The trend is spongy , and vegetable fruits . marketing: project manager: I think p spongy is good because it it will be robust as well . project manager: So , I think we can keep the wheel because it's  easy , it's innovative , even if the cost is a bit higher , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: and we also have to find a , so , a fruit like pear or banana wit  any others idea you have . What kind of fr fruit would you like to to control your T_V_ with ? marketing: user interface:  . industrial designer: You y you don't use the banana when the banana is curving like that , user interface: Two of the button , yeah . industrial designer: but when the banana is curving like that , with the wheel on the top and to control , user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: and here you have a a push button to marketing: But you don't have project manager: I think it's a good idea , yeah . user interface: Yeah so you can just have  just have this curve , yeah , and you move  your hand here to press the buttons and then you move  on the other side . user interface: So you can have it on on two sides and it'll be cool , project manager: Yeah . user interface: no ? project manager: I think it's a good design and it's innovative as well then . industrial designer: If you if you start with  fancy fruits and fra s and tha user interface: Ah-ha . industrial designer: Oh , yeah marketing: project manager: Yeah it's really  really a good point . marketing: user interface: Now who are recording this meeting ? project manager: I think it So One second . So ,  so for marketing: project manager: sorry , for  component , so industrial designer: So project manager: we have to think about those aspects , sorry .  what do you mean by case ? project manager: I think it's the box that should be spongy , banana's shape . project manager: industrial designer: I just want to have so something to prin to to fix my my components onto that box , and that's it . user interface: But  the thing is that the buttons and the wheel have to be industrial designer: Spongy also . user interface:  if it's spongy then the buttons and the wheel have to  if it's spongy then it's going to move , right ? So , it's going to be bend a lot . user interface: So if we try to push the buttons , it project manager: No the button would be user interface: You think it's possible ? project manager: In fact it it should be something odd shaped , with a spongy cover . Button , where do we want some buttons ? user interface: Well , usually hold 'Kay , we want it to be good also for the left-hand users , right ? industrial designer: Yeah . Sa let's say that th o It has to be basically you can only take two sides , one on ths this side where is the thumb and the other side where there is  yeah also the thumb . Or you could use use this one , but I don't know if it's very comfortable , to use this one for the wheel . user interface: This for the wheel and then this for the buttons ? project manager: Yeah I think it's okay for both right and left . user interface: So if the left , we have the op project manager: I think you can turn it this way also . user interface: Yeah , the problem is if you have buttons and wheel then when you turn it around , the buttons are on the other side . project manager: And moreover , th the button ar are lighted so you you immediately identify the right side , because you have light on buttons . user interface: So the buttons have to be here and the wheel has to be Y Yeah I know , but  if you hold with your left hand , and the wheel is here , and the buttons are here , then when you turn it around the buttons will be on the other side . No you you I think you will use it only on the right or left hand , whether you are righty or lefty . project manager: So , for interface we said also that we have  this banana shape with button on the s on the side . I think it's  we defined everything according to what we should what the decision we should take , yeah . That is to say ,  check if it fit the the requirement  given by the users , but according to  your presentation it seems to be okay . project manager: So so to prepare the prototype I would suggest that the Industrial Designer and the User Interface Designer  work together . project manager: You feel  free to express what you want to say ? You don't feel too constrained ? user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: user interface: Maybe you can make    project manager: Okay , so user interface: okay 