project manager:  for the aim of this meeting now is to to make presentation about  the work for each one . user interface: project manager: And take the the decision about the the design and the functionality of the the remote control . project manager: and I think we don't need lighting adaptive , so the remote control should be only used for the the television . industrial designer: So  Well I have a PowerPoint pr presentation stored in my in my personal folder project manager: Here . project manager: industrial designer: Right , so  I will talk about the the w working design and user interface: F_ five . industrial designer: And  well I I will present my my first idea on how to build the our new remote control for television . So I think the first things to do is to define the hardware components neededs to achieve  what we want to do . user interface: industrial designer: So   I'm thin  I think  I I'll do a survey about what is  what is available on the market and what what is the the cheapest possible things we hav we can use . Then  I will try with the technical team to to build a prototype and to see  with  h how this little box would  look look like . user interface: industrial designer: And how an and we can  start troubleshooting first  com communication problems or things like that . user interface: industrial designer: And when we are ready with this first prototype I I think we can add some software functionalities on a programmable chip like browsing by content or  things like that . Okay so can you go down  So , wha what I think for now is we don't want to have a remote control w which is wired user interface: project manager: industrial designer: so  I think we u we can use a battery for the . And the communication with the T_V_ set is  made through  infrared communication So  this is the the schema of the o of the future  remote controls user interface: Did you draw it ? marketing: project manager: Wow . industrial designer: so  you can you can see the components ,  battery and  the two chips goes to the infrared  connection to the T_V_ set . industrial designer: The one on top is for the  well the functionali the functionalities user interface: marketing: One is a communication . industrial designer: and the the th red  sorry the green one is is to well , putting things together ,  f transform the data into  qu into the format to to  to communicate with the T_V_ set . I think we should use a F_P_G_A_ for for the functionalities which is easy to to t user interface:  . What is F_P_G_A_ ? industrial designer: It's field programmable  something array . user interface: So why's it how is it different from the Bluetooth ? industrial designer: Well ,  a F_P_G_A_ is just a chip you can  you can pr programme it  wi with wh whatever you want . industrial designer: And  well the Bluetooth chip is just responsible to  make the communication  between  the two devices .  So this are the they have to work together ? Or ? Do they have to work together or two separate choice industrial designer: No . marketing: Or it's something like isn't hardware the first one ? And the second one is for the software . marketing: Okay , and how about the battery power ?  you mean that battery would be somewhere there and the remote contro the power to the battery comes through infrared ? industrial designer:  no no no no , I think  we have  to to  have  embedded  b batteries in in the project manager: . user interface: industrial designer: And  I I don't think it will need  very  much power to make it run , so user interface:  . user interface: Because you are using because you are using Bluetooth , if some people have P_D_A_ they can use their P_D_A_ to control the T_V_ if they want to , right ? industrial designer: That's a good idea . marketing: project manager: Ma industrial designer: Also , but but I I I think  the the goal is to sell our remote control . So the the purpose is to to find  the important questions to ask is what effect should the apparatus have . user interface: and  and I found that  the function of remote control is to send messages to television set . user interface: For example switch on , switch off , switch the next channel and so on and so on . marketing: G user interface: So I found two very good prototypes for for this interface from our competitors industrial designer: user interface: so can you industrial designer: project manager: This are usual functionality . industrial designer: user interface: But then  loo but then I found if you look at you see on the left one there are too many buttons industrial designer: project manager: And they are small . O on the right I tried to play with the problem is that  if I have hundred channels I have  I have to choo press the other button to choose the hundred channels and I have to compose the number industrial designer: Yeah . And then I I look at the user manual they are a hundred pages thick , so we don't want that . You can navigate on T_V_ screen and we can the user's preference and we need to have the T_V_ connected to internet so we end in order to access the T_V_ programmes by X_M_L_ and we need some to do some preprocessing . From the technical aspect , the processing should be done on the T_V_ set than on the on the remote controller , right ? industrial designer: user interface: And then we the speech recognition as  Harry says we may just put in we may K_I_V_ . project manager: What do you mean by the pa pa processing will be done on the T_V_ user interface: Yeah , all the processing is done the T_V_ is a compu has some processing power the project manager: than the industrial designer: So we have to t project manager: So we should have specific T_V_ ? Or ? We can use this . project manager: Yeah , we don't marketing: user interface: Yeah because are you just wondering what controller okay . industrial designer: I think there there is there is al there there is a a technology like show view who is already available on most of the T_V_ set on recorders or thing like that user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: and we can try t to get this information on to the remote control to to do the processing on the remote control because user interface: Okay . user interface: So i the processing on on the remote controller project manager: Yeah , user interface: so it can u be used in any T_V_ , any conventional T_V_ sets ? project manager: we . project manager: Keep the navigation industrial designer: We d we don't we we don't need really much buttons to i if we have a screen to navigate on on the T_V_ so  project manager: but user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: It's easy to build , user interface: industrial designer: it does not consume much power . marketing: Oh , but you have a catch there ,  assume that  if you want to go to if you are watching channel two and if you want to go to channel ninety nine , then . user interface: industrial designer: Well , then y you you go to the main menu and  you have  go to channel user interface:  . No , because you choose by channel , so you choose by T_V_ program industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: but  I I think i i if you if you want to to make  well a a big jump but  well you you have to to have a a a device when you could you could marketing: But project manager: So you are user interface: Ah . user interface: A mouse or industrial designer: Well , not a mouse but  something that that says more clearly that  right , left , up , down , user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: well , the to have the ability to to to write something to the navigator , maybe directly , or marketing:    . So it'll beep if you wanna find it marketing: too small that it goes under the sofa and we can't find it . project manager: user interface: you just  shout y h just it just has to re respond to you when you look for the device . user interface: And responds to you , and industrial designer: marketing: Yeah , that's right . marketing: Okay , after having the inputs from industrial design and user interface , I think most of the points which I want to are already covered here . user interface: marketing: And to find the most interesting features what the users would be interested , then what we have done is we have put a feedback forms in all the magazines , and the users send the feedbacks , and based on that These are the findings which we got and yeah adding of a speech interface is always good for a T_V_ remote but the technology We already know that as discussed earlier industrial designer: Well I I think it will be a , yes , a bit complicated to  make a speech recognisers runs on the small  ts user interface: project manager: marketing: An it does how feasible it is . I if you just recognise  numbers is a limited you have limited vocabulary marketing: Oh we can put an limited vocabulary as in the mobile phones . industrial designer: And this can allow to choose the the program , for instance without  adding  buttons user interface: Yeah . And of course most of the people are interested in if it's less expensive , project manager: marketing: so this is an important criteria here is user interface: But project manager: But do you think what they sug suggested s possibility . user interface: I no I I think that  i if we go for quality people may tolerate for high quality and of course comes with  reasonable cost . marketing: user interface: Maybe not less , but they may be willing to pay little bit more for comfort , marketing: Little bit more if it's with extra features . industrial designer: Well ,  project manager: There is in the marketing: for a lazy guys they could say nine and the nine channel comes . industrial designer: marketing: Or they say movie name or I don't go for movie names but only for the numbers on the channel , or volume up , volume down , brightness , contrast . industrial designer: we we just have to find a mean how to to add a m a a a microphone or  well yes a microphone into the the remote control , so marketing: I think user interface: industrial designer: I well project manager: I think i industrial designer: it will be alright . project manager: What about lighting adaptive options ? marketing: Yeah as discussed in the earlier meeting , but I think  not much people are really interested in this point if it's not really required . user interface: So you need s special T_V_ sets to do that ? Or it's it's done via this remote controller ? It's very complex . marketing:  industrial designer: Yeah , I think it's a bit complex too user interface: marketing:  yeah , it's for the  industrial design and users interface designers to decide if it's going to be working or not . industrial designer: For our next product , our new T_V_ set with  automatical  sound adjustment light marketing: I think project manager: user interface: Yeah , then we can conclude that . So any things to to discuss ? Or any suggestions ? user interface: marketing: I think as I discussed th that four points would be good for  marketing . And regarding the teletext  these are the subtitl these are the text information which you got on the televisions . marketing: And  if you are a French guy watching an English movie you would like to have it in French . industrial designer: marketing: So , the remote it should have some it should give me some flexibility of choosing the ch languages . industrial designer: Yeah , but well what about the the new project's requirement ? I I I think we should give up with teletext , no ? project manager: I think we we can we is the . Well , so maybe we we can j we can already think  about a way to to access the internet via the television . industrial designer: Because if user interface: Using the T_V_ to access the internet ? Or what ? I didn't quite understand industrial designer: Yeah , but  we can think that in a few years there will be T_V_ set that can access the internet . industrial designer: So it's a good idea if i i if we i if if we  think about how to to to build up our remote  control w with this functionality in a w which will c which will come in a few years . industrial designer: So if we already have it in our remote control project manager: So you have to anticipate the the future ? industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: well , not not to implement it , but to well , to find a way to to add to add this functionality in a yeah , in an in an easy manner , if is possible 