We're here to have a kick-off meeting for the design of a f for the beginning of new project   remote control for the design for a new remote control . marketing: project manager: So I'm first going to do an opening then we get used to one anothers and we speak about this tool we're going to design and try to make a project plan , some discussion and then we talk of  the next meeting . marketing: project manager:  I think the important points we have to t talk about are  it's functional design , it's conceptual design , and desail detailed design . project manager: user interface: It's gonna be not my favourite one but the one I can draw . project manager: industrial designer: user interface: And it's gonna be you'll try to guess . marketing: A r a rabbit , oh oh yeah , where is the carrot ? project manager: user interface: That's it . project manager: You want to go ? industrial designer: marketing: I am not very good at  this kind of stuff . industrial designer: marketing: My favourite animal is project manager: industrial designer: You wa marketing: user interface: Wow . industrial designer: project manager: marketing: What about you  project manager:  yeah Christa Pavlov  . project manager: So they have to be waterproof maybe ? marketing: It has to be  wha baby proof project manager: 'Cause they eat she ate it . marketing: because even if she's not very tall she's  high enough so that  when she throw it away it's  industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: But how gonna okay , just  but it's  monochrome it's n it's not like industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: Yeah even we can change colours , no ? Like the  marketing: Oh like the phones , industrial designer: like the phones and these things we c yeah . project manager: Small also ? Don't you think industrial designer: Huh not so big like yeah . industrial designer: Yeah , not too much buttons and marketing: Should it be , y you know these  remote controls where  they are what they call a universal ret remote control project manager: marketing: so y you can decide that now it's the remote control for the television , then it's the remote control for the the sound system , or for your refrigerator industrial designer:  . project manager: Yeah , industrial designer: marketing: whatever project manager: that's marketing: I dunno if it's project manager: marketing: Or if we should have a targeted re remote control . marketing: So colour , robustness , easy to use , size , project manager: So , I think there's marketing: yeah , size matters , yeah . Colour , size , sh project manager: So you you think it's better if small than bigger . marketing: But  what would be different from this , from the others ? I dunno if industrial designer:  maybe we can change the colours that at least the frame . marketing: I think one thing important for instance in this remote control if you remember when people use it they're they never find a good button in the right place . marketing: For some reason they they they click the off button when they want to use the industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: So there's a problem in the design of that kind of remote control somehow , project manager:  . So , some kind of idea  with   cellular phone with a a screen that will tell you what marketing: I dunno . marketing: Too expensive for twelve Euro ? user interface: And n maybe not too expensive , project manager: And too expensive . marketing: So ma I prefer to have the off button at the top right , industrial designer: Ye yeah . marketing: so I would have my own design of the remote control because it's in fact just a a full touch screen remote control , industrial designer:  . industrial designer:  it it's like marketing: I don't know if it makes sense , but project manager: industrial designer: it's like two types no ? people are right handed or left handed so y because I am left handed I use like this , say if you're right handed you use like this marketing: Yeah , for instance ,  . industrial designer:  user interface: so how many actions do we need to implement in it ? industrial designer: huh . user interface: On off ? industrial designer: Maybe I think even we can keep two switches and then we can  only make one working . industrial designer: We can adapt only one switch , suppose here like we can make two switches and if I'm left-hander I use this switch to follow the main operations . user interface:  if it's less than three  then we can make it  like a industrial designer: Two . marketing: Three buttons you mean ? user interface: like three mental states , project manager: Three option . project manager: Maybe if it's more , if there is a software inside industrial designer: project manager: that ask you three user interface: industrial designer: marketing: project manager: If it if we want a r universal remote control that we sa like we say before it may may need more than three  three button , three  possibilities , ye yeah . user interface: But for standard actions you usually what do you do , you change channels , you adjust volume , and nothing else . marketing: Yeah but for instance when you change channels you can have you can just go to the next one or go to channel twenty five . industrial designer: marketing: Because I'm only using three or four channels but industrial designer: Yeah . But they keep generally their t slash slash  this thing and then the dash dash and then you can put yeah , you can only have one bit . I change channel like this , m  I want to go to twenty five , and then to ten , -huh  yeah . marketing: And then back to the one I was before , project manager: Also we can be here marketing: so there's whichever it was . project manager: marketing: Then you can watch what your ah you could also record your record your sequence of actions , industrial designer:  . marketing: that becomes more complex , project manager: industrial designer: marketing: but you could look at what  the other people have used there or remote controls . project manager:  we're going to meet again in thirty minutes and  I want you to  work on these ideas and try to make a  the ones , make  to decide what what are the ones important and what are the one that we don't want . marketing: So what does M_E_ means ? M_E_ the user requirements ? Or that's  that's for us ? user interface: Market Expert . user interface: marketing: Oh , of course yeah , the user requirement specifications , -huh , yeah 