project manager:  in the last meeting  the marketing manager had presented  her method of working , meaning gathering i suggestions from everyone to see how she best could market  this this product at the within the budget  that was given . In addition to that to make it sell , of course ,  the marketing manager w wishes that it be very attractive , marketing: project manager: or like she says put some sizzle into it in one way or another so that the people are buying it now because , in particular with smaller items , that's a very important fact , 'cause  if they say , well , I go home and think about it , that won't work . project manager: Our technical manager has then said that she feels it should have a chip marketing: project manager: that has infra-red bits and it has an interface controls w interface that controls the chip . If too many buttons are pressed ,    child lock  and  maybe a display clock so that people could  you could see the time , you know , what show they want to watch . So the components of the thing should be button , bulbs , infra infra-red bulbs , battery , chips , wires , and maybe some kind of a holder  for the for the  item . project manager: interface designer   has mentioned that the that it , of course , should have an on-off button , and also has mentioned an interesting feature that it should have maybe a channel lock . marketing: project manager: And even possibly a timer to so that people can program their favourite   program on th right from the remote . project manager:  are we all in agreement that that's about what we discussed last time ? Okay . And  I don't know whether the order matters much  , I don't I don't think so , so whoever w wants user interface: Okay , I can start first . user interface: Now as an interface designer , I would give more emphasis on the interface , how the remote looks like so that it is sellable , it is attractive to customers . This messages could be  switch on-off message or switch to next channel message or swapping the channels or switching onto a particular channel , like you can have the numbers one , two , three , four , up to nine . project manager: Nine what ? Nine channel  switches ? user interface: Pardon me ? project manager: Nine channel switches ? Is Yeah . user interface: by which using which you can swap the channels if you don't want to see the third channel you can swap it to the fourth channel or vice versa . Then it should have a next button , and next button channel by which you can keep on  v   eh scrolling the channels one by one . user interface: Then you should have a button which should which ca which can be used for increasing or decreasing the volume . user interface: Then , there should be a button which can give subtitles for a particular program which is going on a television . For example , if you are watching a French program and you would like to have a subtitles in English , then there should be a channel which can trigger this mechanism in the television so that the user can see  the the subtitles on the screen . user interface: Then there should d  there should be some buttons which can control features like the colour , colour of the picture , the contrast , sharpness , brightness of the picture . Suddenly if if if   viewer he gets a telephone call , and if he want he doesn't want to switch off the  T_V_ , but he he can reduce the sound , he can bring the volume down and he can watch he can  while talking he can watch the T_V_ . So a remote can be th can be  designed which can have the voice recognisers , you can record your own voice project manager: user interface: which can be recognised by as voice recogniser in the television , for example , if you want to see we if you want to see the ninth channel if you say just say ninth channel ,  th now the the  yeah , the remote will automatically it will switch to the ninth channel . user interface: So the T_V_ will have some recogniser which will recognise the user's voice and accordingly it will change its functionalities . user interface: Then , these are some of the remotes which are different in shape and colour , but they have many buttons . user interface: So  sometimes the user finds it very difficult to recognise which button is for what function and all that . Yeah , so this is one of the interface or one of the remote which has this vi voice recogniser . marketing: user interface: And this has multi-purpose use , it can be used for T_V_ , it can be used for cable-satellite , it can be used for V_C_R_ , D_V_D_s and audio . project manager: user interface: Can you go on to the next slide ? Yeah , now this is an interface for a chil  for a remote   which a child can use . user interface:  this is user-friendly , it's very attractive and  children can use it as well as they can play with it . user interface: And this this  child  interface has minimum buttons marketing: user interface: and all the important  buttons are there in this small , compact , attractive child interface . Now this is a big over-sized remote which cannot be misplaced or it's impossible to misplace . user interface: project manager: user interface: So this is No this is a very big , you cannot misplace it anywhere . marketing: user interface: So this is a jumbo universal remote control and it's impossible to im misplace or lose . And the personal preference  would be a spe   to incorporate speech recognisers  which will respond to user's voice for a particular  function .  any comments on  her presentation ? marketing: Well ,  looks like we still have quite a choice of things out there . I don't think that we can get  The T-shape is good , the child one is good , the too big to misplace , I think it's just funny . marketing:  I don't think that's gonna be our impulse purchase at the checkout counter . user interface: project manager: No , I think the these are her presentations , but  as far as the decision making we getting to that after after marketing: Yeah  . project manager: but if I just wanted to know whether anybody had any any anything to add to her presentation . industrial designer:  this time I'm I'm going to  concentrate more on the components and the technical side of the remote controller design . marketing: industrial designer:  the first one is case to keep all the components like integrated circuit , battery , etcetera , etcetera , it's like  it can be a plastic one , hard plastic , so that it can be strong , even if you just   , you know , if you if it falls down , then it doesn't break . industrial designer: yeah , and also  using of colouring compon components like  if we want to have different colours , blue , red , green , so   we have to use  some colouring compone compone components . marketing: industrial designer:  which  we can use a highly sophisticated one because it's like the it's like the heart of the remote controller . If it is not efficient then everything wi is going to be  like  the lef ess less efficient so it you should we should have a highly sophisticated one . Suppose if it is thirty-eight degrees outside forty degrees outside , it should it should  be able to re  resist the  temperature   highs and  high temperatures and low temperatures . And the  other component we should  we have in the remote controller is a resistor  which is like   i it is very very much important for the electricity  flow through through through the  remote controller and  also a capacitor which is a b which is a m I think it's it's like a battery , capacitor . industrial designer:  a diode , a transistor , a resonator , these are all this  technical  electri electronic compons  components which are which we have to use in a remote controller . A battery  , I would like to suggest one thing  if we  if we will be able to make a res rechargeable battery then we sh we need not go for a high performance battery , even if it is a low performance battery it ca it can't l it can't charge much . Then also we can If it is a rechargeable one , then  people can use it for a long time , so in that way we can cut cut the cost , but w   that we have to make the battery as rechargeable one .  when you press a button , when you do that , you complete a specific connection that means when you when you press a button there will be a s a small circuit underneath the button , and it will send some signals through the wires , marketing: industrial designer: and then  the chip will send start connection and knows that which button is pressed . Suppose you have pressed channel one button , number one you have pressed , then the  chip will know that the number one button was pressed . marketing: industrial designer: It pros produces a mors morse code line signal specific to that button . Suppose  the  user has pressed butto button one , then it will have a spe the circuit will generate a specific morse code to b that that button , and the transistor will amplify the signal and send then to the L_E_D_ which translates the signal into infrared light . It will amplify the signal and it will send it to the L_E_D_ and which translates the signal into an infra infrared bits . The sensor on the T_V_ can see the infrared light , and seeing the signal seeing the signal re it reacts appropriately , that when it sees the amplified mo morse code signal , then it will  it will  know which  what what action it has to  do . When you look at the   remote controller  it's it's it this is a normal remote controller . And  if you open the remote controller you have this circui circuit board and few electronic components , marketing: industrial designer: like you can see a chip there which is having eighteen pins , project manager: industrial designer: and also a capac  a capacitor , three resistors and also a resonator    yeah , and di and a diode transistor . industrial designer: The electronic components  all of the electronic components have all those  things like a chip and d diode transistors an Yeah , di  can y  you can see the T_A_ double one eight three five labelled  chip  . industrial designer:  you can also see the   the green two green things are  these are they are they are resistors , user interface: industrial designer: and  just beside that you can see a transistor , and a   cylinder shape ,  that one is a capacitor . Actually ,  building a circuit bo board is pretty pretty  easy and also it's a it's a l l inexpensive .  it's it costs less than what you print on a paper , because   when you when you are building  some circuits some   circuits and also wires , it's it's better to go for printing , because  you can build these kind of k circuit boards on a on a bulk and it's just printing , nothing like  , you know , you don't need to use wires and all . So th that green  thing is a circuit board , and also you can see  there are b s like   access for buttons , like when you press a button , the circuit under the button will be activated  th it will it will he get some signals from it and it will  it will ch its ch se send a signal signals to the , yeah ,  integrated circuit . And  like  we have  designed  before we have seen some  few things like instead off buttons we have some scrolls .  b but a b a push-button requires a simple chip underneath it , but whereas a scroll wheel requires normally a regular chip which is a higher price range . industrial designer:  and a as energy source we offer a basic battery , a more ingenious  hard dynamo ,  a kinetic provision of energy , more than what is that you shake casually to provide energy . Like we can have a ma material such as plastic , rubber , wood , titanium , but titanium we can't use .  and also for electronics we can use a simple and regular  re or an advanced chip on the print ,  also infra it includes the infrared se sender . project manager: Any particular comments by anybody ? marketing:  yeah , on the scroll and the push-button ,  ca you can achieve scrolling by repeatedly pushing a button ? industrial designer: No , no , no , th the the the scrolling wheels are different , like you can go for a sw switches like buttons or scrolls ,  which which we used to do before ten ten years before , I think . industrial designer: Now , nobody uses that because you need you need a a k sophisticated chip and all . project manager: We don't have a lot of time left and we will still have to make a decision , and the marketing expert has to present her her thing . marketing:  alright , my method is  I'm interested in what the competition is doing , and wanna see how we can make ourselves different from the competition , so I've really been looking at the press and the ads that are out there for other remote controllers . And then when I'm out  in people's houses or at meetings or anything like that , I try to notice what kind of remote controls people have , and if it's convenient in the conversation I ask about it . They don't want to have to squint at small print  , they want buttons whose functions are obvious , and they want  as few buttons as possible , and they don't care for the mode thing .  and our preference is , as far as I'm concerned , are we got to get to the market before the competition . Ours has to be look really great and it has to come out before the others , so that we have a leg up on time to sell it and push it before other people get out their Christmas item . If we try to tell people it has too many great features ,  the consumer just gets confused and we don't get anywhere . So we've gotta narrow our selection down to li two things , I think , that we gonna say are really great about our our our new product . They are more back into soft feel , spongy feeling things , things with maybe a little cloth on them . project manager: And  so what do we think on the concept marketing: project manager: of the remote ? marketing: You wanna try to come back to yours , and limit yours a bit ? project manager: Y user interface:  yes , I would like to include this feature which is called as voice recogniser . marketing: So speech recognition is most important as far as you're concerned ? user interface: This could be  one feature which could be sellable . industrial designer: Yeah , but w marketing: Yeah h that could that could that could be our star feature . industrial designer: Yeah , but but I what I'm  very very much doubtful how how  far it will work , because a speech recogniser like i it it has its own   problems , issues . marketing: Distance problem ? industrial designer: Yeah , it's not distance problem it it's recognising a person's voice , user interface: industrial designer: like maybe different people will be having different voices , so it like it's  everything so i marketing:  . project manager: Well , you you teach You have to teach  industrial designer: So to get a good recogni recognising system , it's a costly thing , I think . marketing: user interface: No , it's it's ,  yeah , it it's like your recording of  all   a question already , and then you're expecting an answer from th For example , you have a T_V_ system , I'm the user and my family members are the user , industrial designer: user interface: I will already record  a question like ,  good morning , industrial designer: Yeah , but Yeah . user interface: So I'll say just good morning and the T_V_ will switch on . project manager: Okay , before we get too far off here  , the components of the concept is the energy . project manager: User interface concept ,  interface type , supplements marketing: project manager: That will be your area I think , right , Jana . user interface: Supplements like different types of features buttons , like can have a f mute button or a swapping button . marketing: Well , I think that Yeah , project manager: Oh , like marketing: or or like her speech recognition would also be a supplement . marketing: Okay , so why don't we put down speech recognition if possible pending some more research from our industrial engineer on how expensive that is .  our next meeting will be in thirty minutes , and the  I_D_ is to this is the individual actions to be taken until then , to have the look and feel design , and  the U_I_D_ is supposed to  come up with the user interface design , industrial designer: project manager: In this phase , the two of you , Jana and Francine , have to work together on a prototype using modelling clay , it says here . project manager:  if you have any questions , you know , you you can always  contact me  or  or your coach , I suppose . user interface: marketing: Wherever they're hiding ? industrial designer: project manager: user interface: project manager:  so  I think we conclude the meeting here and we come back in   thirty minutes , according to our timetable here 