project manager: Hello ,  this meeting we are it's fo should be focused on the conceptual design of the remote control . project manager:  the goal of this meeting is to reach a decision at the end on the concept and I think the last time we talked about an a lot and we had a rough idea of what is going to be , but  in th at the end of this meeting we have to to reach a decision . So ,  we will have again three presentation , from all of you , and  I hope it will be fast because I would like to have time to for long discussion and and decisions .  so basically I just want to presented to you present to you some recent results we've had from  looking at   some remote control market research and some fashion trends around the world .  the fashion trends we got from talking to our our contacts in the fashion industry based in Paris and Milan .  so f from our market research basically we've come to the conclusion that a fancy look and feel ,  as opposed to a functional look and feel , is our number one priority .  and third thirdly the easiness of use is is the  is is important as well , but again two times less important as the technologically innovativeness of the remote control . From our f fashion people in Paris and Milan ,  we've discovered that this year  fruit the fruit and vegetable motif will be the most important thing in in clothes , shoes and furniture . marketing:  so in conclusion , we need a our remote control needs to be something that's really fancy ,  has lots of technolog tech technology in it . user interface: marketing: And that it's easy to use and from our last meeting our you know Fabian told us that w you know one of the requirements is that we have to reflect the look and feel of our of th the Real Reaction company . marketing: So  fanciness first and then two ti you know , half as important as that is technology technology , project manager: Okay . So I am going to talk about a little bit about how this remote control should be appear to be more easy to use . I think  I think the feature easy to use is more important than being fancy , but okay , we can discuss about it  later .  generally , generally  this remote control   should be should be something , in my opinion ,  the first feature is just to be easy to use . So , the more frequent buttons should be larger , they should be placed in a good position   inside the remote control . And  s  I can conclude like this , that we shouldn't need to learn how to use it . It should be we shouldn't need to es open a a t book and  start reading and  learning how to use this  this  remote control . So what I found out that  as I said  I think it's better to put  more frequent    ke  buttons which are used more in the middle of the remote control , and they should be bigger in size . user interface: And maybe  just like some toys , some joystick which is easier to take inside the hand . And  also f   m because because customers doesn't like to buy lots of battery , it should not  consume lots of energy . And my personal p  preference is  , as I said ,  just putting this buttons in a special places and covered some buttons which are not used  that much like settings button , like mobile phone . Usually some mobile phone cover the dialling number part , so we can cover these buttons which are not used or  number buttons for the for the for the can channels , and just put  volume change or s ch can  channel change buttons   in the remote control . And if the user needed to do some more complex task  he he can open the cover and then change settings or something like this . And also  I think if we put some some some some some buttons inside of the remote control it can be used easier . For example , a sliding or rolling   d  stuff , if we put it inside then we can easily manipulate with  thumb . And  I dunno but  I think usage of a speech recogn  r recogniser can be good . I know that it consumes lots of energy , but if we do it in some way that it asleeps when there is no sound and when it detects some sound it may consume less energy . And I think it's good because it's something new and usually young people like something new . industrial designer:  okay , so good news from me   for me from Hamed , but bad news from Bob obviously , because spongy design , I don't like it as marketing: project manager: industrial designer: Okay , so could you please , Fabien , open it . I Most of the things I have to write myself on the board , but project manager: This one , yeah . This this is just  one thing I wanted to mention and show you that I just  I just found this , that our company  developed a s a seven f seven fingers or I'll just marketing: Inch . industrial designer: Yeah , seven seven inch T_ T_F_T_ screen , which is good news for us , since we wanted to include a display there . industrial designer: Okay , so the this will be like the overall scheme or overall requirements from the engineering point of view .  first thing is  this will be the overall shape , no  I'm not speaking about the real shape of the device , but the shape of the inside of the device .  the main energy will be taken from batteries that we can   And if we decide to use the speech recognition stuff there , we must use additional source of energy , which I found the best is to use the solar cells which can which can  supply everything . I was computing all the all the things related to the speech recognition , and it's okay to use just  two batteries and solar cells , so .  the main board with all the circuits will take at least seven to seven centimetres , so this is my like hard requirement for the guys from the design . It depends where you put your screen , because the screen is  seven inch , so it depends on you where where you put it . Then the graphical card  for the T_F_T_ and the third unit is the I_R_ . The good news is that we can  we decided to use the infra-red unit because our company has also developed the chip for communication by the infra-red , including all the stuff inside , so it will be very cheap for us . So the once again the overall requirements , seven to seven centimetres for the board , which has to be which can be spongy but has to be this size , and the T_F_T_ which is seven inches .  I have to check what I wanted to  from my point of view I don't care about the about the material used for the overall des  ov all the device . project manager: Can you fit any  for example a T_F_T_ or any electronic device in a spongy thing , or is there any problem for that ? For example , put electronic card on a spongy thing , I can I can imagine it could be a problem . industrial designer: A all these things in in  in this box are okay to put in in any shape , basically . Maybe it a good feature , since it takes if it's around the T_F_T_ then it's good , because it's just keeps it safe , project manager: Okay . user interface: Well maybe it can have two shells , a hard shell inside and a spongy shell outside . marketing: This seven inch T_F_T_ screen , industrial designer: Yeah ? marketing: how big is it in reality ? industrial designer: Well , seven to seven inches . industrial designer: marketing:   have we decided that we're gonna use this T_F_T_ screen ? project manager: No , I don't think it's seven by seven , industrial designer: Yeah but project manager: I think it's seven the diagonal is seven . industrial designer: To be honest , I was project manager: Usually when they say seven inch I think it's the diagonal . industrial designer: Yeah , honestly speaking I was thinking that it was seven centimetres initially , marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: Yeah , no no problem , user interface: industrial designer: because because because then the size of the graphic card will be one fourth . industrial designer: So marketing: industrial designer: Yeah , but no problem to to me to cut the screen . marketing: So , what's the size of the device ? industrial designer: Ah well this is like this is almost nothing . marketing: Even from my perspective seven t seven centimetres by seven centimetres is still industrial designer: Yeah , but we wanted the big buttons and stuff like that , you know . marketing: Is it Can you hold that , or ? industrial designer: Because if it's t too small we can we can lose it , at home , you know . project manager: A sm industrial designer: marketing: But is something that's seven centimetres square e easy to hold ? user interface: industrial designer: W I I think so . I if the roller buttons are on the side you don't have to catch it like that , but just like this , and you know follow follow Well , that's that's no task for me , but well seven to seven at least yeah , project manager: So maybe you can finish your presentation , user interface: project manager: and afterwards we will discuss about all this .  , so I think we have a lot We have to take decision today , so I think we have to do some work to finalise our idea and take decisions .  first I think energy it's a key problem because  it depend what can we have as feature if we use only batteries , for example , or something like that . Because can we have L_C_D_ and speech recognition with battery , and it's also r related to the size of the of the devi of the device ? industrial designer: Not J  just a point to the energy th things . If we use the batteries , and the additional so solar cell , then it's okay for L_  speech recognition and L_C_D_ , project manager: Okay . project manager: but using how many batteries , for example ? Are are what Maybe what is the size of the battery industrial designer: Yeah I was thinking just common A_A_ cells . marketing: So if we use s solar cells ,  where is the sun if someone's watching T_V_ inside ? industrial designer: S  d doesn't need to be sun . industrial designer: Yeah well I I suppose that I suppose that  that this remote control won't be in the in the room like this , where there is light only when when there are people , but . project manager: At least when there is T_V_ you can get light from the T_V_ . industrial designer: Ah it's a it's a compromise , no ? marketing: project manager: At least it's new and maybe technology New technology . industrial designer: Yeah , that's why I wanted to to include the speech recognition , because you wanted all the new things . user interface: project manager: So I think before talking about the other thing , it's important thing it's the case . industrial designer: project manager:  what what are gonna be the size , because its weight drives the other what we are going to use as features and so on . For example for the for the L_C_D_ , if we choose to have a small device , we cannot use this  a such a a a screen . Well what what would you guess as a shape ? Or what what would be the shape ? user interface:  . And I prefer to is it shouldn't have a uniform shape , so in the middle it should be a little bit thinner , maybe maybe . You can take  some some joystick you can take inside hand easier because it's it's designed for your f  taking into account your finger shape and your palm shape . So  seven not seven but let's say five by ten it's I think it's that's my opinion . industrial designer: Yeah , I think it's feasib Well one   How could we do it ? We could put the board next to , well , under the L_C_D_ and for example make the L_C_D_ be totally unrelated to the thing that you hold in your hand . industrial designer: Like holding something , and the L_C_D_ to be just on top of it , you know somehow . I've I s I think the easiest thing would be to to have a smaller L_C_D_ , if it's possible . industrial designer: Okay , so five to ten , I I think it's it's feasible . user interface: but I don't want to now invent something new , because we didn't discuss about it . So using some L_C_D_s we can touch , so we can remove  keys and just  having  , I dunno the name , L_C_D_ responding to fingers . user interface: So But for now if we don't want to use such kind of screens I I think we using a a smaller screen is better , project manager: Yeah . user interface: because project manager: The problem is we have a limit in a month of time , so we cannot do something very new . user interface: project manager: So let's go for a small L_C_D_ . marketing: So industrial designer: Okay , so Yeah , so so just just give me the the the five by ten numbers that you find the best and send it me user interface: A smaller s project manager: Yeah okay .  something easy to use , you said something easy to use but how does that fit in a fashion way , like with fruit and vegetable , and about the colour and logo of the of the company and so on , now , can we do that ? My first idea is because our colour is more yellow , and the it should be easy to take in a hand , I thought about banana , or something like that , which is fruits , and industrial designer: Seven to ten banana . marketing: Well it's it's definitely the obvious choice , with the colour of our company . user interface: marketing:  what other what other fruit and vegetables project manager: But it's just an idea . I dunno what you think about , but marketing: Do you know of any any other fruit and vegetables that are yellow ? project manager: Yeah . project manager: industrial designer: Well , but If it's If it If the banana is big enough . Well user interface: project manager: Yeah , and industrial designer: user interface: I think this is not good . project manager: The screen has to be square ? Or it can be like a a shape , quite ,  with curves . industrial designer: But if it's square then we get four screens out of one by cutting just . But if you want some shape then we can only get like two screens out of seven to seven inches , so . I think that's more important than saving a bit of money on on the T_F_T_ screen . industrial designer: Yeah , m maybe the banana could be like a bit  fatter than than the c c common one . Yeah , it should remember banana , but it's not doesn't have to b to be   really the size and exactly the shape of a banana . project manager: So we are agree with the banana thing ? industrial designer: Well it we'll stick to banana , or ? user interface: Okay . project manager: So , the last point we decided it's infra-red , I guess . You have other thing to add to this point , or  no ? So ,  about the user interface , so we are going to use L_C_D_ . You talked about the buttons on the side industrial designer: Like like peeling of the banana you s user interface: Yeah , peeling of the banana . marketing: industrial designer: First layer obviously spo Yeah , project manager: So industrial designer: w It's it's like silly , but the people will really appreciate it , yeah I think . project manager: Is it is it possible to do that ? It would be a great idea , but is it possible technically ? user interface:  project manager: Like doing a spongy layer of the banana , and you open it . marketing: I think if we if we have a spongy layer on the outside of the banana then it's easy to make that , project manager: Yeah . marketing: you know , to manipulate that to hav be a cover that you can pull off and user interface: user interface: Yeah , some Something like a plastic cover covering  some interface , U_S_B_ interface as in the in  digital camera . You open a plastic cover and you see some U_S_B_ interfaces , some some interfaces for adaptor . So keys can be  buttons can be covered like this , with a plastic cover and  when  and when you open this cover it's like peeling a banana . project manager: Yeah , but do you see that as a rigid thing , or like like a banana , something very soft , you can open like banana , or . industrial designer: Well is it possible to make it soft ? user interface: Yeah , yeah , yeah it's a lic like a plastic cover , so . industrial designer: So I think if it's so then it's cool ? project manager: So , I dunno what you think , Bob , but it would be great for users I think , and very good for marketing .  maybe , how can we , if we have a soft thing , like this , and to open it we have to attach it somewhere , I dunno how to do that technically , or . Yeah or a Yeah it can is it can be a plastic cover  sticking to the to the all the stuff like  with magnetic p  magnetic  magnetic  materials in the border , so it's it sticks like refrigerator door , completely . So you you can be sure that it will not be open while you're  while while  you are commonly using  buttons on the banana . industrial designer: Well since since the since the things like the like the screen and  how to say that , solar cell has to be has to be like kept kept in the shape , we cannot b  So we need that the that the peeling  I dunno but we should we should take care of these two two things . So , if if  the solar cell won't be visible while the banana is closed , then the material must be able to put the light inside , you know . So you're saying is it possible to have a solar cell and this removable cover and industrial designer: It is possible , but , well if it marketing: And a and a banana . industrial designer: I dunno how to how to do it if if t if to if it's better to put the solar cell to the t to the peeling or outside it , or or inside . project manager: And something we forgot , maybe ,  about the speech recognition system , are we going to use it , or not ? marketing: user interface: Yes , I think . project manager: So we have the de design , the a good shape , new and so on , user interface:  . marketing: user interface: project manager: And  , yeah , I  I think you should work together , s you  Hamed and Peter , to work  in a in a first prototype , and  more about the shape and so on and how you can manage to put everything together 