project manager: user interface: marketing: industrial designer: - So , ready ? user interface: 'Kay marketing: No not really Just project manager: marketing: Crap . user interface: marketing: 'Kay , so whe where is the remote control ? project manager: So , we are user interface: Where ? marketing: user interface: It's here . project manager: So I will still play the role of the secretary , and we'll have  first the project presentation by our User Interface Designer , David Jordan , user interface: Okay . project manager: So we'll have to evaluate the  your proposed remote control , user interface: 'Kay . industrial designer: user interface: marketing: project manager: And in case if we're we all agree on the fabrica of  building of this remote control , we'll evaluate the  production . industrial designer: project manager: So maybe I will let the our two designers talk about so their user interface: I have slides . project manager: user interface: It's looks like some mushroom , so we call it mushroom design . project manager: Genetically modified mushroom I will say , but user interface: Next a mo marketing: Yeah . In the traditional key  traditional controller use button to to select the channel but now we have a s circle , so we can turn this ball to t to select channel .  this sta  this triangle base is very stable , so  so it's it's  it's unlikely you cannot found it . So it's v  , you can put it in the table so you can turn the the ball to cha to select the channel and there's some cute button . You c can can you can see the the shape of the buttons n is a mushroom , so project manager: Everything's mushroom . industrial designer: Yeah but it's not like really mushroom because you have  you know  like lemon shape , you know , centre is yellow and t d user interface: Yeah project manager: Okay . user interface: Yeah , th that's why if you put it in the table , be careful , somebody will eat it . project manager: industrial designer: I don't think I hope nobody will eat it You know , to integrate the fruit aspect , you know the the in project manager: Oh . Inspira inspiration is industrial designer: And inspired colour project manager: industrial designer: and and very sophisticated material , so . project manager: industrial designer: So what we w what I can add is that , you know he talk about what is outside , so what is inside is what we dis what we talked before about , you know , the chip , user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: it is a low level chip , and user interface: So we cut it to see . industrial designer: You know wi the low level chips inside and you know the L_C_D_ button and the i user interface: Okay . Here ? project manager: And where is the solar solar cell ? user interface: marketing: But we say  we sa we said solar . project manager: Where is the solar cell ? industrial designer: In fact this this this this is a kind of you know revolutionary solar receptor that we can put outside and project manager: Oh . Do you think it won't be It won't cris increase the price ? user interface: Okay marketing: industrial designer: I don't think so , project manager: Okay , we'll see after . So project manager: so , mister money , what's your opinion according to this remote control ? marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: user interface: marketing: we gonna try to measure how good it is instead of just talking about  project manager: industrial designer: marketing: we had three keys key points to  for this remote control design , user interface: marketing: and first one was  project manager: marketing: So w we'll try to judge this feature  with a one to seven scale , one being  no , I think . marketing: Do we have a fancy look and feel , according to you ? user interface: Yeah , I think so . user interface: Yeah , the shape is unique , and the colour marketing:  I'll agree it's unique , but is it really industrial designer: Is it really fancy ? user interface: So it depend on how d do you define fancy . user interface: industrial designer: But it's you have the lemon aspect of this th this this thing . user interface: project manager: Maybe if you change if you take the buttons out , and maybe do things like that industrial designer: Do Don't do that , please . marketing: I dunno where the lemon is , but industrial designer: I it's it's i this shape is a lemon like , so user interface: marketing:  it's not obvious . user interface: marketing: If industrial designer: Because i marketing: I dunno , maybe improving the texture of like having it less smooth or project manager: Yeah . project manager: And you know , you have the finger here , with the buttons ? user interface: Yeah . project manager: What's the use for that ? industrial designer: I have no idea , so . If you want to turn the ball , it's very it's very convenient for you to to to turn the ball to change the channel . project manager: industrial designer: I have no idea what project manager: And where is the voice recognition ? marketing: Okay . user interface: This is microphone array marketing: First one is we have to judge the fancy look and feel . Is it better like that ? marketing:  project manager: Looks okay , industrial designer: So we can we can say t user interface: project manager: let's say it's a pineapple now . industrial designer: The colour , is the colour acceptable ? marketing: No , the colour is okay , that's fine . marketing:  it's project manager: It looks like a marketing: but I would say there is more too much red . industrial designer: It's too much red ? marketing:  if industrial designer: In the basement ? project manager: It looks like a pineapple with cherry on top . So , from one to seven ? industrial designer: I will give I will project manager:   Seven is the ma the maximum ? industrial designer: I'll gi marketing: No , seven is false and one is true . marketing: Then  let me industrial designer: What other marketing: The other criterion is is it technologically  technologically in innovative . industrial designer: Is it easy to use ? project manager: Feasible ? You said previously that you there's  microphone inside an industrial designer: Ye  Embedded . project manager: and you have the there's the technology inside that recognise simple vocal comments ? user interface: Yeah , yeah . project manager: And you can turn it so maybe it's techno technologically innov innovative ? user interface: So you can capture voice yeah , you c industrial designer: Oh yeah , yeah . industrial designer: And I think you you've never seen a rou a round remote control , so it is I marketing: Yeah bu but when you say technologically it's more  I dunno , in the core , or single . industrial designer: I think technically it's acceptable , so project manager: Maybe two ? industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: So using the same scale , two ? project manager: Two ? I would say two industrial designer: Two , yeah , two . project manager: It's better like that , isn't it ? user interface: marketing: Now maybe the most critical one . industrial designer: Most marketing: L last one w I would like to judge is is it easy to use ? industrial designer: Eh , for th the vocal command yes , it's might be easy . marketing: Yeah but this this turning can you can you just re explain me the project manager: industrial designer: As a principle . Yeah but how how intuitive is it to turn things to change channels ? user interface: You just tu turn d d industrial designer: I think maybe if you he project manager: Oh , ok I understand . marketing: Like if you want to go from user interface: project manager: You take take the remote , so industrial designer: If you hear some click project manager: and you can turn like that to change the channel ? user interface: Yeah . marketing: Yeah but imagine you y project manager: I think it's quite easy to so s zapping , but maybe it will be too fast . user interface: marketing: Yeah I'm I'm no I'm not definitely convinced it's it's the best way to if you wanna jump from , I dunno , one to twenty ? industrial designer: Oh yeah , that's difficult . marketing: How can you go directly to twenty , for example ? user interface: No , no , no . industrial designer: Yeah but y how you need to know I marketing: But  if you're fro from two ? user interface: I if if this is a channel one . industrial designer: And you you can marketing: Yeah ju just imagine you have fifty fifty channels  project manager: Oh yeah . user interface: So you got how many degree you you it project manager: Yeah but y but you have to go through all the channels if you want to go industrial designer: I think you can if you have a scale , so user interface: No no , you don't have to y no it's  when you when you stop t  when you stop , the the turn , project manager: How d how do you know this angle is th is the correct one ? user interface: It's it's very easy , because you kn you know how many channel are there in the marketing: So you you count one degree , two degrees , no . You can say fifty and fifty it's okay , so marketing: Yeah voc vocal command is okay . But w we've said previously that maybe it's not going to be th l the main user interface: There's  also a number , you know . project manager: Yeah , but when you're zapping you're changing from one channel to the other , so you're passing through all the channels . So , when you say I want to go to the channel number twenty that's you've decided to go to channel twenty , so you can say channel twenty , or channel four , because you really want to go on this channel . project manager: But if you really want to to do zapping you you don't really know what you want to do , you can turn it . project manager: Just go through all the channels and maybe stop if there is something interesting ? industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: And but I'd user interface: And also you can , if you i project manager: yeah , what's what's this cherry ? user interface: You ca you can turn this . industrial designer: S But I di I didn't see where the t f the turn off t turn on turn off button so much activates user interface: This is from one channel to industrial designer: maybe one of the user interface: Yeah . project manager: marketing: Yeah , but it has to be on to recognise fas industrial designer: project manager: Most of the time you have the yeah it's a sleeping remote control . industrial designer: Easy to use , it's very relative but three it's fine , I think , it's reasonable three . marketing: So reasonably , is four , is one ? industrial designer: Three f three for me , it's o it's okay . user interface: project manager: And what's your opinion ? industrial designer: Will you give four ? marketing:  we wouldn't say , those are sort of agreed but this one would be more five to me . industrial designer: Five ? Yeah , so maybe if user interface:  w w what do y what  you compare with traditional   tr traditional controller ? marketing: Yeah . If you use traditional controller you have to put a button , but now you don't have to put button , you have you just turn the turn the ball . industrial designer: Yeah but y you know user interface: There's two kind of balls , marketing: So you have user interface: the smaller the the the so you can c you can c you can control the scale . user interface: But in the traditional controller , how do how can you control the scale ? marketing:  by pushing zero after after the first one . user interface: Yeah , industrial designer: And that's user interface: yeah , yeah , y you you can do it , but you can also do it in the b if you you do not wa if you do not want to browsing all the channel you can just p there's also a button here . user interface: Yeah , this function is just for your browsing , from one channel to th the next one , the next s sn s , the th the third one . project manager: Previously you said that turning this was the fine marketing: Yeah , if you're changing your mind . user interface:  there's different scale , so you can you can choose how much do you want to sc marketing: Okay . marketing: Yeah but then  when you turn turn it project manager: Oh user interface: project manager: Yeah , no no , no . You know tha that's the weak point , user interface: You use your y marketing: because with a traditional one you just have one hand . project manager: Yeah , but nobody would be able to take it in the pocket and bring it in the kitchen and say I've lost the remote control . project manager: industrial designer: it's the next prototype , maybe we cou user interface: Okay okay , okay . project manager: marketing: Okay , so industrial designer: It need maybe some wo further work , but it's marketing: Yeah , especially on the easy to use industrial designer: Yeah ,  s yeah . industrial designer: Yeah , b I think project manager: But I d m I think that it will be good to do some more work to transform this into a pineapple . So as we all agree to accept , under certain conditions , the prototype , we'll have look to the final sh financial view . As I said in the first meeting we need to have so a remote control that would cost not more than twelve and point fifty Euros . project manager: And if not if it's not the case y you would have to redesign it . project manager: So , just have a look at the okay here is the Excel sheet , so industrial designer: project manager: so it has the energy source . project manager: Kinetic , we don't have it , I suppose , industrial designer: No , project manager: but we have solar cells . project manager: how many do y do you need , solar cells ? Do you think one would be enough , or such as as number of branches ? industrial designer:  I think in each ball you have three project manager: Three ? industrial designer: three  yeah , three , yeah . Single simple chip on print ? Just one would be necessary ? industrial designer: S s simple , simple , yeah . industrial designer: Is it marketing: industrial designer: Is sh it marketing: So we are all already nineteen . project manager: Okay , user interface: project manager: just keep on going , just to have an idea . industrial designer: Is Yes a wooden pl I and that's project manager: Well  industrial designer: There's no wood , so plastic just only , I think . project manager: yeah , but what what about case ? Uncurved , flat , single curved , double curved . project manager:  wood ? industrial designer: But it's yeah , a a rubber  marketing: Rather four buttons . industrial designer: Y you tu you turn you turn it , so user interface: No no no , it Okay . project manager: Yeah , maybe two scroll wheel , as we have the coarse coarse to fine scroll wheel . project manager: I think we s if we keep on adding things industrial designer: It's okay . project manager: so we have to marketing: Yeah w one of the m key point is solar cells . project manager: Maybe if w t if suppose if we change and we g put just one ? marketing: Yeah . marketing: just imagine we have industrial designer: So user interface: We have to delete the the sample sensor , I think . project manager: no ? marketing: Yeah but this one one of the feature we were not really user interface: Yeah it's the one it's project manager: Okay . industrial designer: Because  it seems that this can be marketing: Yeah , if project manager: Or it would be better . project manager: So , do we need special colour ? marketing: Yeah , that's one of the requirement . user interface: We we can we can we c marketing: We could turn we could turn everything in either yellow or black . project manager: I think so we need if we try to have a kind of industrial designer: marketing: Yeah , one . project manager: So if we have all integrated i in the scroll wheel and push button , it's  industrial designer: One . I can remove maybe f you have five with push buttons , so we can just , I dunno , try to modify some of them to have yeah . marketing: Okay , so what's the bottleneck ? user interface: How about we change the sale ? marketing: Double curved . user interface: marketing:  project manager: I think there's a problem with the push push button . project manager: So yeah , you will have marketing: So we have one button , industrial designer: One s one scroll wheel , so marketing: one wheel . It think we we've done good job , as the cost is user interface: Cou could we have look project manager: twelve fifty e user interface: Could we have look at the p the the prod the p the cost ? marketing: Yeah y actually it's wrong . user interface: Wha what industrial designer: It's fine , twelve fifty  user interface: yeah . industrial designer: The solar cells , r is i is it ? user interface: Yeah , I think it's not t t project manager: I think , yeah . But it would i be interesting for our marketing team , to make a lot of advertisement concerning these solar cells to be industrial designer: Yeah , to be able to si to sell it . marketing: That's nice argument , industrial designer: Yeah , with mi marketing: but if it's it's still four our of twelve . industrial designer: user interface: project manager: So it's easy to use and powerful , as the remote control a has only one button . industrial designer: We've done it with it is under the if it was low , high or so . project manager: Now industrial designer: So So what are we going to do with this project evaluation ? project manager: So marketing: Well I think we have just have to discuss if industrial designer: Okay , okay , it's fine . project manager: Yeah ? Was it a nice way to create your remote control ? industrial designer: user interface: Yeah , it's  it's good , to to create a control instead of a computer . project manager: industrial designer: Yeah , I think I find it really funny and amazing and interesting to go through all the process to from the beginning to the end . project manager: And for the marketing guy ? marketing:  tha that was good but we should have more brainstorming like meetings , maybe . project manager: And new ideas about new products , maybe , wi which would be fashion and  and yellow . I think you can think about a yellow T_V_ now after a fruit T_V_ or I dunno . user interface: project manager: user interface: industrial designer: It can be an interesting I don't know project manager: Yes , just lemon . user interface: Yeah , but y you know the traditional T_V_ it's  industrial designer: It's flat ,  user interface: Yeah yeah it's flat , project manager: Squared ? user interface: yeah the shape is very boring . user interface: Could we come up with new T_V_ with such as this kind of T_V_ ? industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: So you can you have base , triangle base so you the T_V_ you can marketing: project manager: Ah , the lemon T_V_ with the pineapple remote control . industrial designer: But I think it's good to follow the f flow and you know make it now and after , you know , if the people change their mind you change also the product . marketing: If you have a lemon lemon T_V_ for industrial designer: We can think about T_V_ with you know where you can change you know the aspects o like for the cell phones , you know . industrial designer: Yeah , you customise it every ti so every ti if people change , you just change the appearance , and y y you can keep user interface: marketing: Yeah , yeah . industrial designer: Yeah , you can keep the global appearan project manager: Yeah , and following industrial designer: The mood of persons , the fashions  project manager:  . project manager: It's interesting , maybe we can create a a line of  T_V_ with  a a tr industrial designer: We int Yeah , T_V_ , yeah . A T_V_ for autumn and a T_V_ for winter , you know , so it's user interface: Yeah . project manager: So user interface: marketing: industrial designer: project manager: do you think you can celebrate your creation ? user interface: And you can celebrate your leadership . marketing: Yeah , I think it's project manager: It's maybe a little bit expensive . industrial designer: Wh really ? project manager: industrial designer: It should be it should be fine , you know , actually . industrial designer: user interface: marketing: industrial designer: I I think I like the the colour a the colour are very good , so actually so project manager: But don't put sugar in it , it's not working . industrial designer: I p is th y project manager: Yeah , but the colour , I think the colour is more is most important , industrial designer: the the yellow ball thing that marketing:  project manager: because I I don't think you have ever seen something like that before for a remote control . It's yeah but it I don't think it's such a problem just putting the logo somewhere . industrial designer:  f like y we can we can put some  double R_ project manager: Yeah , but we decided to have something yellow and red , for the costs . project manager: So maybe we can just integrate it on th on one side , the double R_ . project manager: So we have the logo , we have the colour , and we have the fashion in electronics , user interface: So we have to give a project manager: so we have the slogan too . project manager: Yeah industrial designer: project manager: th no , it's the it's the pineapple control remote control . industrial designer: Oh unid  unidentified remote control , so marketing: It's more appropriate , somehow . I can hel I will try versions so to see how easy easy to manage user interface: Okay . Yeah you told me you h you d you d you lost your control your T_V_ industrial designer: Yeah I always lose my Yeah , so so i if it is a universal one I can use it with my T_V_ , so it would be user interface: so you need to buy one . project manager: One thing I like is the shape , because you know it's not like the  the remote controls you can put in your pocket , on  in your jacket . industrial designer: it's will enlight your house , your home and your T_V_ , so . user interface: project manager: I think it it would be interesting to just to see if we can if people will buy this one , and maybe add some features to it after yeah . No ? project manager: So I think we have finished the designing and the evaluation of our remote control industrial designer: Okay 