project manager: And then we going to do some finance to see if  it is  feasible user interface: And chocolate ? project manager: and  at the end we will we will  evaluate ourself as a team . So first , I present as we came to this perfect model , project manager: user interface: and then we'll give some technical specifications . We analysed all the fruits project manager: user interface: and contacted NASA , and  made some real good project manager: MASA ? user interface: Yeah . user interface: And making some analysis of different fruits , we choose the ultimate form , ultimate colours , and  ultimate smell of it . But we still didn't want to go far from our titanium idea , 'cause it's the most of the moder the m the modern material we can p select . Explanat user interface: Everyone is f really  really glad to obtain an s such a r such a device . imitating flatulence] project manager: What do you say ? user interface: N marketing: It says project manager: user interface: You must say it . And so , we have buttons and using L_C_D_ , or like you can use this jog wheel and select which ever option on the L_C_D_ , and then do on and off . Like , m switching the L_C_D_ display if you want to use L_C_D_ , or you don't want you can just use normal button . industrial designer: And then you can see the look L_C_D_ and all the switches . industrial designer: Yeah , or s So , we want to have simple and perfect shapes , like I shown in these phones . That's for the L_C_D_ or for the titanium ? marketing: You mean we can change the colour  of th industrial designer: For the L_C_D_ . Even you can configure your colours for its the depending on your mood , or s marketing: Okay . Or project manager: And w wait , wh what are the strawberries for ? Wh wh industrial designer: Huh ? marketing: On the L_C_D_ ? industrial designer: Ah , these are like sensors . industrial designer: So , marketing: industrial designer: after this meeting we'll propose a party for our success for project manager: Ah . project manager:  industrial designer: So , any specific questions for project manager: we'll see in the financial part if  all gets into user interface: marketing: It makes sense . project manager: W Who is the five  fifty millions we first make a party in ? industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: yeah , let's see if  th it's meet the evaluation criterium . You made a very nice prototype , and  , I think , we now need altogether to try to evaluate it to see if it makes sense to do it , if it fulfils our what we want to do , and things like that . As you know , before going and  creating and producing these strawberry  remote control , it's very important to first verify if it makes sense , if we have a chance to sell it . marketing: so we need to evaluate it  , try to do it in a constative way , and as much as we can . And then we are just going to have an average , which will give us the value of our  remote control . Of course , this can be discussed , but let's let's see , so let's vote . marketing: So , industrial designer: Yeah , what's is really marketing: what do you think , is it fancy ? industrial designer: it's really project manager: I think that fancy , we can say it is fancy . project manager:  what do you think ? marketing: What do you think ? user interface: Feel the weight . So marketing: Yeah , o one means it's , yes , a very fancy and seven mean no at all .  marketing: So , what about technology ? We have  we have speech recognition , we have location based , industrial designer: And we have L_C_D_ . project manager: Yeah , I think it's a marketing: Quite user interface: Yeah , yeah , yeah . industrial designer: still we need to cha marketing: So let's suppose my daughter take it and  and through it away . project manager:  marketing: Do you think it makes sense that it's going to live again ?  , maybe not the prototype . Well , so the question is does it have  the minimum requirement of re remote control ? industrial designer: Yeah , marketing: So I don't know . These are the main marketing: it depends on the project manager: And you can  do di two sites ? marketing: Okay . Yeah , and you can do on L_C_D_ using these going to scrolling all the option . industrial designer: So if you don't want marketing: So but , for instance , because the L_C_D_ is not  touch control , touch screen , you cannot go to channel twenty five directly . user interface: You go you project manager: You c push here the the user interface: So , the basic mode project manager: yeah . marketing: It's much longer than that that being two two five , no ? user interface: No . marketing: But So what do you think for it , usefulness ? industrial designer: So , d Yeah , we need to address we want marketing: Seems to be useful . industrial designer: we only address two main functions here and the other functions will be on L_C_D_ . So project manager: Let me understand well , industrial designer: so project manager: because I'm not sure that's for that this one are b d  two dir directional button . And which what is that ? user interface: It's a jog dial for controlling the cursor on the L_C_D_ screen .  , see in L_C_D_ , like you will have blocks and you select which one . marketing: Is it the the the effective size and weight that the Is it  real size , real weight ? Or Because it industrial designer: Yeah , it's size al almost marketing: Size is going to be that , yeah ? industrial designer: Yeah , because it is marketing: and and industrial designer: The weight will be bit lighter . marketing: because I'm haven't seen the weight so I must not  user interface: Okay . marketing: Well , so colour , it seems that we have the several colours for the L_C_D_ . marketing: But  , it's not very clear what is the colour of the sh the sh the case . industrial designer: The case is silver titanium , no ? marketing: It's a it's going to be titanium . marketing: So project manager: I  it that's  industrial designer: So maybe , I think marketing: I think usefulness is m as as I rem  just have to remind you that usefulness is much less important than fanciness . industrial designer: Yeah , well marketing: Whether it's fancy or not now , it we have to decide .  marketing: But this project manager: I would have m  i found more fancy that the fruits are useful . Not like this d We're just giving the fruit for more fanciness and more attraction , too . industrial designer: So , maybe think we can have rubber or some sponges , stuff for strawberries and different colours . industrial designer: So it's marketing: So , it seems we are not so clear on the shape  industrial designer: Even project manager: No , I'm not sure  why industrial designer: These buttons project manager:  if it was like this industrial designer: But it looks really not really good . user interface: And industrial designer: Even we can provide many different colours or different fruits , and project manager: -huh . user interface: but still you got some rubber fruit here , and it's completely  completely secure to leave it  with children and that . project manager: Okay , so you you you feel like it's something  a protection for the remote control . Yeah , we've yeah we have sensors here and so here and here , project manager: Also . marketing: but  can we adapt it to each each personal use ? user interface: Sure , sure , just look at it . marketing: That industrial designer: You can marketing: What else can we need ? industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: You Do you think you are gonna be able to do that with ti titanium as well ? project manager: Yeah , it's fudge titanium . Well , I if if this is if you are ready to do that , then I think it deserves a one . So now , it has to fulfil the financial criterium ? marketing: industrial designer: Financi marketing: Ah-ha . user interface: What what's the limit ? project manager: H marketing: It's twelve bucks . user interface: it's it's okay that I don't know , 'cause  it's not my field . So the case , which one  is it in the end ? industrial designer: Yeah , I think we will go for a single curve , no ? marketing: Let's do a single curve . marketing: It's only curve ? project manager: Oh see , I I think that the the price is this one . marketing: Special colour ? user interface: Well , n Why three ? industrial designer: No , only one , no ? marketing: No because  project manager:  . marketing: So the L_C_D_ project manager: How many push-button ? industrial designer: Scro project manager: Three or two ? industrial designer: two .  That's that's not marketing: That's all ? project manager: We choose this one , and not this one . marketing: is it a scroll wheel and pe push button , th this centre one ? project manager: Or only a scroll-wheel . So project manager: You try to s marketing: You are trying to make make up make us up . industrial designer: It's already project manager: Because how do you do to y select ? industrial designer: Ah . marketing: No , but you select with the two d the other two buttons , project manager: Yeah ,  you you go on the location with your scroll wheel industrial designer: Y ye marketing: no ? That's true . project manager: You you have all of these , no ? marketing: She's very hard on this . project manager: Not special colours an interest in ? marketing: No , the colour is in the L_C_D_ . project manager: And buttons are not colourised ? They are m industrial designer: marketing: I no . marketing: Well , if I look at what is the most expensive things ,  it's the L_C_D_ industrial designer: Sample speaker . user interface: Well , as you may know there's some research done in the field of producing energy from mechanical eng , producing electricity from mechanical energy . So , the point is that when you take device and push the button , you produce enough energy project manager: But you don't need a battery ? user interface: to make electricity . project manager: But  marketing: So that would project manager: it's like the hand dynamo , no ? industrial designer: Maybe the jog wheel can be like kind of hand marketing: So , but if we select the hand dynamo it's okay , we only industrial designer: is marketing: We we win one . user interface: And ? marketing: And ? project manager: M maybe minus  three , no ? industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: It's not changing , no ? user interface: Why ? industrial designer: It you don't marketing: Yeah , yeah , yeah , if Click somewhere , you'll see features . industrial designer: Yeah , that marketing: It Is it ? project manager: Yeah , yeah y industrial designer: marketing: I think we're exceeding now . It's maximum industrial designer: Is really strict ? marketing: We would prefer , project manager: and don't have to Yeah , yeah . marketing: I'm just curious to see this industrial designer: Ho marketing:  my address chip on print .  , I would say it's the Russian trick , but project manager: Yeah , but  is  English . When we see the results , there is no doubt there industrial designer: Yeah , it's really project manager:  . user interface: M maybe not , huh ? marketing: Team-work , very strong , I would say . marketing: New ideas found ? project manager: So , you say , is there sheep ? marketing: Yeah . A good leader , you know , a good leader is somewhere in the shade and marketing: but  then I I mus That's true . user interface: we could forecast it , right ? marketing: To whom ? To the whole our company ? project manager: I'm the one , proposing the celebration . industrial designer: So where we will go now ? project manager: Ah  , industrial designer: ye project manager: I think it's finish . marketing: I think the meeting industrial designer: Will go to Italian restaurant , or marketing: The meeting is over at least 