Okay and the agenda will be the opening and  that's  the product manager or secretary that's me and  the presentations from the Christine and  Agnes and from Mister Ed . And finally in this meeting we have to decide marketing: project manager: and we are to take a decision on the remote control concept and  the functional design So we have forty minutes , I think it's  little bit  low , but I I hope we can finish it up so I'll handle to the the functional team , to the Christine , okay , to discuss about  the components concept . So  project manager: industrial designer: we were looking he specifically at the components  the following components ,  the case , the power supply ,  the means of communications with the television set . In instance we had talked about using some sort of speech recognition , project manager: industrial designer: you have to have microphone well no you don't actually I haven't have to have microphone in the device , but  maybe you do have it a a way marketing: industrial designer: it has to it has to hear the speaker user interface: industrial designer: and  , so it could be in the television set , could be in the device , but somewhere you have to put the microphone ,  and a w a way of making beeps or sounds so you can find it when it's gets lost . Our method for going about this is we've looked at  the histo hi historical record , what's worked , what hasn't and then we also  we wanted to evaluate some new materials marketing: industrial designer: and we contacted manufacturing for their input because , course , we m might come up and choose the material that then manufacturing didn't have the technologies or capabilities to offer us , so  this is the approach that we took during our  our research . marketing: industrial designer: So  for the case ,  we told we were making a specifica specific assumption that it would be curved in design . marketing: industrial designer: Course , you know , I wanted it to be expandable and shrinkable , but  that  doesn't seem to b be one of the choic non-option we can  we can really seriously explore , user interface: industrial designer: so then we were thinking about  rubber , but  unfortunately that's been eliminated because of the heat  factor user interface: industrial designer: and th  there might be some problems with the m  how it's  goes with the board .  and  then th plastic also has this problem of melting and it's brittle it gets brittle after a while , user interface: industrial designer: so  we still had titanium and and wood available , but  unfortunately   titanium's also been eliminated  , user interface: industrial designer: the m people in manufacturing said that you couldn't make d curved cases out of titanium , although how Apple did it with th PowerBook I'm not su quite sure but  nevertheless  they've eliminated all of our options except wood . marketing: industrial designer: And a as she said , it's an environmentally friendly  material , so we're we're currently  proposing , marketing: industrial designer:  we'll get to all my personal preferences in just a second . marketing: industrial designer: So then there's this other matter of the chips and  well we could use a simple design on the board , user interface: project manager: industrial designer:  these simple chips , but that's only works for the bu you don't get very much  intelligence with this simple one . And  then there was the regular which I regret that I've forgotten exactly why I'm eliminating that one .  the other option was this advanced chip on print , and  we liked th we we found that it it includes this infrared sender , marketing: industrial designer: which w 'member the beam was that was an important component of finding the right chip . marketing: industrial designer: And  manufacturing has told us that they've   recently developed a  a sensor and a speaker that would  be integrated into this advanced chip on print , so  we we  now jumping right to our personal preferences  I I'd really think we should , you know , use some of  some really exotic woods , like  , user interface: industrial designer: you know  , well you guys come from tropical countries so you can kinda think of some trees and some nice woods . I think that people will might really want to design their own cases , you see , they could do sort of a this  three-dimensional design on the internet , and then they could submit their orders , kinda like you submit a custom car order , you know , and you can choose the colour and the size of the wheels and the colours of the leather and things like that , and then I  think we should go with the solar cells as well as the  microphone and speaker on the advanced chip . So this is the findings of our research marketing: industrial designer: and my recommendations  for the new remote control w  would be to have  have it be made out of wood . Do you have any problems with that ? project manager: Can you go back  one slide ? industrial designer: I'm not sure , how do I Oh , I know , let's see . project manager: Yes ,  question , what's mean exactly , advanced chip on print ? What's the meaning of that ? industrial designer: I think it's   a multiple  chip design  and it's  maybe printed on to the circuit board . project manager: Yeah , is it means it's on the yeah is it on a micro-proc micro-processor based or  industrial designer: I don't know , but I'll find out more at our next meeting . project manager: Okay , tha that would be great , so if you find out from the technology background , okay , so that would be good . user interface: Why was the plastic eliminated as a possible material ? industrial designer: Because  it gets brittle , cracks user interface: user interface: industrial designer: I don't know , speak for yourself , I'm planning to be around for a while . user interface: Although I think marketing: user interface: I think with wood though you'd run into the same types of problems , wouldn't you ,  it chips , it if you drop it , industrial designer: marketing: user interface:  it's I'm not su industrial designer: project manager: So so you're not convinced about the the wood , yes . user interface: industrial designer: you're what ? marketing: Actually , I'm ready to sell it . user interface: I think if you re if you use really good quality wood , then it might work , marketing: I'm ready to sell it . industrial designer: You think ? And you could you could sell oils with it , to take care of it . user interface: but you can't just use marketing: No y no no no , the o the only w the only wood you can use are the ones that are hard , extremely hard wood , user interface: Yeah , exactly , yeah . industrial designer: Well I'm glad you user interface: marketing: That's actually very innovative idea . marketing: industrial designer: marketing: Well , it's actually a very innovative n different idea that  you know you can choose your colour of wood , your type of wood . marketing:  it's each person is gonna have their own personalised , individualised speech recognition remote control in wood , that's not on the market . user interface: project manager: Yeah , so it it's looks good the the design the functional design  , what about yo you ? marketing: user interface: in terms of comments on this or in terms of my own project manager: Yes , in t yes , in term in terms of comments first marketing: In turns of wow . industrial designer: user interface: industrial designer: She works in the cubicle next to me so she's  she was already a little bit prepared for this . user interface: marketing: Wood ? user interface: I think we can get the quality materials then it shouldn't influence the design principles too much , which you'll see with my presentation . marketing: user interface: One thing we'd have to check though is what the users whether how quickly the novelty wears off of having  industrial designer: Yeah , you wouldn't wanna have to have splinters in your hand while you're using your user interface: Yeah , for example . So , have to see how kid-friendly it is and and all that , marketing: industrial designer: It's really good if your dog gets ahold of it , they can use it for teething . user interface: but marketing: user interface: marketing: They do that anyway with the rubber and plastic , industrial designer: Yeah , they do it with other materials as well , yeah . So , it's a very short presentation , 'cause I'm actually gonna draw you the layout on the board so if you want to just go straight to the second slide , which basically shows , sort of marketing: user interface: I took the ideas that we were talking about last time  and tried to put that into the remote control so the things that y you can actually see on it are the on off switch , volume and channel control , the menu access button , ergonomic shape , which I completely agree with Christine's idea to have it sort of molded , so it's slightly more ergonomic and comfortable to hold than the r standard very straight remote controls . And actually the other thing with the wood if we take your customising idea , is that people can actually do sort of quasi-measurements on their hand size , so if someone has larger hands , you have a wider remote control .  , one thing I thought might be kind of interesting is to put a flip screen on it , just like you have on flip phones , marketing: user interface: so that you don't have this case where someone sits on the remote control or accidentally puts their hand on it , especially if you have little kids around , they're not pressing the buttons while you're trying to watch a T_V_ show and accidentally change the channel or turn it off . user interface: And also  you had issues with the batteries running out , marketing: user interface: so I thought maybe we could put a little battery life-light on it that kind of goes dimmer and dimmer and dimmer as your battery is starts to die . And in terms of invisible features , audio and  tactile feedback on button presses and , like you said , speech recognition . user interface: So , in terms of what this thing would actually look like marketing: user interface: Despite working in interface design , I'm not the greatest artist in the world , so you'll have to forgive me . You'd have something like this with an on-off switch fairly big , sort of in the corner and by itself , so you don't accidentally turn your T_V_ off while you're trying to manoeuvre other buttons . And then you have sort of one of those toggle displays for , oops , channels and volume , sort of for surfing channels and then volume , so the volume would be the up and down , 'cause volume goes up and down and then channels left to right . And then on one side you would have an access to the menu on your T_V_ project manager: user interface: and on the other side a way to turn off the voice control . So that if the user doesn't want to use their voice , they can just turn it off and you don't have the remote control accidentally changing things on you . user interface: so again you can have a little L_C_D_ light somewhere , the flip thing and Have I forgotten anything ? I don't think so . project manager: user interface: which is one of the things I really wanted to keep , is keep it simple , not have too many buttons , not have too many functionalities thrown into it . Think the design can pretty much carry over to everything , although with the wood the flip screen might have to do something slightly different . But you also have to d start watching out for the weight , 'cause depending on how much the the flip screen will add to the weight of the remote control , you don't want it to start getting too heavy . user interface: But that's the general layout with the general functionalities , if we come up with something else . As you can see , there's still lots of space on the actual remote control and if you do it customisably , you can make this thing fairly small or fairly o large , depending on personal preferences . user interface: So , that's pretty much all I had to say , everything else in terms of design issues .  the centering of the key pad and the channel is just depending on where your thumb is and you tend to use the the volume control and  the browsing more than the actual number pad , so that would be sort of in direct line of where your thumb goes when you are holding the remote control , industrial designer: user interface: So once we decide exactly what we want , then we can figure out the exact positioning , but more or less I think it should go along those lines . We've been giving simple questionnaires in different areas because th obviously we have to see what the com consumers are looking for today , 'cause  trends change very very quickly . In six months maybe this idea is already gone out the window , so it's gonna be a question how fast we can act . This is what we know from the last  from the questionnaires from the the all the p surveys we've done , fancy and feel-good , that's what we've been looking for , something that feels good in the hand , that's easy to use . Looking for next generation of innovation , because all the remotes out there now , they're all very similar , they all do the same thing , project manager: industrial designer: marketing: we have to have something completely different . Okay ? Easy to use , has always has become has become another major interest that  , with the whiteboard we can see that it's a remote that's easy to use . And I think this is another thing that's interesting is the consumers actually willing to pay the price for exciting tel technology . So even if we have a product that may be more expensive , if it comes out right , if they look it looks and feels good and has technology . The second one , there is about  forty-five thousand different buttons on it , which makes it fairly hard to read ,  very hard to use . industrial designer: user interface: marketing: The first one , I see that they put in a display . Now there's something else  with the little flip-up , now we're adding all kinds of things in , user interface: marketing: but with the little flip-up , if you have a little display on the flip-up that when you close it everything is locked . marketing: Maybe the display also makes it easier to use , because sometimes when you're looking for buttons , maybe if you see a display user interface: industrial designer: Context-sensitive instructions , depending on what the tel what mode the T_V_ or the D_V_D_ or something else is in . marketing: Okay Because I've seen mostly the standard ones , user interface: Especially you might need something like that for training the speech recognition and marketing: yeah . marketing: So maybe if we can incorporate the easiness of use , trendy , fancy , feels good ,  with a display , wood , designer wood , designer colours user interface: industrial designer: user interface: project manager: industrial designer: You know , maybe what you could do is when somebody orders the device id you could send them like  a   b some sort of a foam rubber  ball , marketing: we might've user interface: Oh yeah . user interface: Yeah , so it's really molded to to your specific industrial designer: To t an and then you would know like  what the geometry of their hands would be and  marketing: project manager: marketing: How hard they squeeze ? user interface: industrial designer: Yes you'd know what kind of wood to get . user interface: But th for that you'd also have to do sort of an average across families and things like that if unless everyone has their own personal remote . industrial designer: That's right , that's right , you wouldn't wanna go too far down that . user interface: industrial designer: marketing: No , but incorporating the three  obviously it'd be something totally new on the market , totally different user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: marketing: and from user interface: Well , already the customisability is a really good sort of new gimmick . marketing: Right , you take it apart , and put on another face , take it off and put on another face user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: We'd also have to wor  consider that  who we were gonna get to make these custom cases in terms of manufacturing processes , we might wanna  learn about  labour laws . project manager: industrial designer: You know in different countries and stuff wher so we can do it cheap , but you don't wanna exploit  labour in  third world countries . industrial designer: So actually you could turn it y turn around and say that you're  par the reason the cost is high for the device is because  you're paying a a working wage to the person who made the device . project manager: Yeah , but we can get a production in , countries like , India industrial designer: Cost of living is low . project manager: yes , yes , countries like India or China or Malaysia , so you can go a better features and better price and you can sell more . So industrial designer: Good , well th that'd be something that manufacturing would have to  explore more project manager: Yeah , yeah , so Yes . project manager: So Yeah , so industrial designer: Yeah marketing: We're here to design , come up with a nice product . project manager: Yes  , but  that that we can that we can talk about the production later , okay , depends on the the quantity , okay . project manager: So we don't need to have our own  fabric factory or something , industrial designer: project manager: so we can have a tie-up with who the do the fabric , okay , for the different  electronics items , then we can have a business tie-up and to get to cut the cost , okay , to sell more . So , but  le let's decide first about the components concept and  interface concept , okay , if is acceptable for both of you , what  Ed was talking . And your design whether you want with the display or without display or just a simple , so user interface: I think it depends ,  I think it's a good idea , but we need to really think about how useful it's gonna be because theoretically with the T_V_ you already have a big display right in front of you . user interface: So , if we're trying to keep costs down , then maybe sacrificing the display is a way to go . user interface:  it depends on how much putting a display costs and what it would be used for industrial designer:  . user interface: 'cause if it's only used for one little thing , then putting in a big display case or a big display that's probably expensive just to do the training on the chip for the speech recognition or whatever , may not be the most cost-efficient way to go , project manager: user interface: but that's just sort of speculation ,  . industrial designer: What do you think Ed ? Do you he liked the display in one of the concepts that you showed , do you know how much it costs , to to add a little display like this  ? marketing: No . No industrial designer: Do you wanna take an action item to go find out ? marketing: no p spec It's 'cause we have to find out cost on it . industrial designer: So the the advanced chip on print is what  what we've we've deci we've determined marketing: industrial designer: and the  engineering industrial design is the recommendation , and  I think we've kinda come to some agreement regarding  this concept of a wooden case . user interface: What about the buttons , would Would the buttons be wood too , or industrial designer:  I don't think so , no , project manager: I don't think so . industrial designer: so you have that tactile experience of project manager: Don't looks nice  . Yeah , so  what we'll do is , we will stick with the the simple design for time being until  th Ed find outs about the how much it's cost to the extra , in case we go for the display . project manager: maybe what you can do is  , both of you , you can come up with the the prototype , okay , the model . project manager: user interface: industrial designer: So  are we done with this meeting ? project manager: Yeah , I hope , if is it okay if  they will come up with the prototype design , okay . Then they can show you how it looks like , and then we can  submit to the I will submit to the management . Okay ? Then meantime you can come up with the price , how much it's cost as extra for  the display . user interface: project manager: Of course you'll make money too , industrial designer: project manager: so it it's not only pay-out , you make money too , your commission . user interface: marketing: user interface: marketing: project manager: Okay , so , any questions ? user interface: No . project manager: So , by next meeting , so , please come up with the the prototype , okay , then  , then we can proceed from there . project manager: So thanks for all your  efforts and coming for the meeting again , and see you soon then 