So  basically we we are not decided if w we should go for a universal or specific   remote control , but I have new  new i inputs for about that topics . And  basically we decided to  to  go to individual actions for each of you  so  Industrial Designer should wor was supposed to work on th on th on the working design . project manager: The U_I_ guy also  work on that , yeah , and for the mar our Marketing Expert should deliver some specs . So , I just put d quickly Remo , but if you have any o other names that we co could decide for just to to keep something fun for our project we we should we could discuss quickly . marketing:  I was thinking of the user interface: Especially if we're selling into the U_S_ market becasue there's a lot of Spanish speakers there . M_A_ ? M_A_ ? marketing: A*_N_ yeah D_O . marketing: It doesn't it doesn't sound cool for me , project manager: What does it mean ? Oh . marketing: but maybe for a Spanish for I for user interface: What does it mean in Spanish ? marketing: Control . 'Cause it also like in English it sounds like you know the man's tool you know because you know men like to have control of the remote marketing: But  , yeah . project manager: So , let's go for Mando ? Yeah ? No objection ? industrial designer: Yeah , yeah . So user interface: And we could have some like you d you could have the fonts you know special , so you have man in like in in  in one o in one font and then the O_ as like project manager: Okay , I think this is user interface: Although you don't wanna cut  cut women out of the  potential buyers though , project manager: Okay . user interface: do you ? So industrial designer: Yeah they are the most T_V_ watcher . marketing: But yeah project manager: I I think this is more a question of of look and feel . marketing: it  project manager: Something that should be addressed later We should we should go to other for the other topics . We need to know who we're selling it to before we can really decide on a project manager: Yeah okay , so let's stick f to Man Mando for the name user interface:  . So , who want to start ? user interface: project manager: So maybe we could start with the market , yeah . marketing: Okay so yeah I will I will give a brief outline about what I what I prepared for this meeting . I prepare a marketing report and we have to find the weaknesses and and the the improvements we could do to the current remote controls . And also I di I did a study with for the incorporation of new technologies it seems that the remote controls have been have remained the same for the last five , ten years . So and they they admit that the the they should  s they would  spend more money in a fancier remote control , which is which is good and it's interesting point . Also the people are worried about about the R*_S_I_ disease , which is if you repeat the sa the same movement , which is not a with a not very appropriate device , you you will have problems whe when you will get old . They are also they get angry very often because they lost the remote control very often , so I think it would be a good point to to l to to find a a solution to any beep any alarm or something incorporated to with the remote control every time it it get lost . marketing: And also I found that young people the the younger people are the more interested they are in incorporating new technologies in the in the remote control . marketing: So in my opinion the Mando this Mando shouldn't be very small because the smaller it is , the more like the the liklier it is to get lost .  people also complain because they they they all have the same size of the buttons for buttons who w which are not very use like f  memorising channels or or this kind of actions which are not very often but they they shouldn't they shouldn't have the same importance in the in the  in the remote cont in the remote control . So it may be interesting to to think in a in both prototypes , for right and left handed people . user interface: Well th the on the thing is though , most remote controls are used by more than one person . So unless you're kind of targeting single people you know you're gonna maybe marketing: Yeah . marketing: I dunno I th Anyway I think it could be int interesting to to release some a a small fraction of of this remote controls . marketing: Sorry ? industrial designer: A universal design , which is which is good for both the hands . user interface: Still shaped for yeah for your hand but not for a particular hand , right ? marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: Yeah ? That's right , whether it's left hand or right hand , marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: but but don't you think that the two points are clashing , one thing you are saying design should fit the hand shape and it should not be very small ? marketing: Sorry ? industrial designer: The first and the third point , they are clashing . user interface: Well it means like , this remote here is kind of is very thin and long so instead of having you know you might have it kind of a bit bigger industrial designer: - marketing: Yeah , like user interface: or , you know , with maybe some some finger molds or something . project manager: industrial designer: So it means design should be similar to the traditional ones ? user interface: industrial designer: Little sleek , longer ? user interface: industrial designer: And it should fit the hand . marketing: No no I was thinking of so like something project manager: Something with the shape of the palm ? industrial designer: - - user interface: You could even have some buttons like you know on the sides and everything , project manager: On the sides . project manager: And then finally marketing: And finally , the incorporation of a L_C_D_ or a speech recognition system in the remote control could also be interesting , but I don't know if the budget would be large enough . First I'm just wondering about the L_C_D_ stuff because  because marketing: But most of yeah most of the young people to thirty to thirty years old were really interested in this kind of technology . project manager: Yeah , so maybe it's a good time for me to  to bring you to some new  new informations . We had the new requirements from the so  from the head offices of the company , and so they wanted so they want to  they would like to be restricted to T_V_ . project manager: so they want us to restrict the remote control to T_V_ only because of time limitations . So we have also to focus more on the internet aspects because well well te teletext is outdated now and  finally , it should be clear that the corporate image , that means colours and logos of the co our company should be clearly inde identified in the product . So user interface: I was still  I was still working on this  twenty five Euro price point because I think actually having looked at some of the remotes out there , this is quite a low  price if if we're maybe I can get to this in my presentation though , project manager: Yeah yeah . project manager: Okay so let's keep in mind about tha that that this last point about L_C_D_ and speech  reco user interface: Yeah . I think even even if it was within budget do a speech reco rec system it might be a bit difficult because if you think if you're watching T_V_ you're gonna have a lot of this  background noise from the T_V_ which might interfere with the project manager: Sorry , what is your ? user interface:  participant three . You might have some background noise from the T_V_ which will make the speech recognition much  harder , so . user interface: Oh you press a press a button to talk , and the the T_V_ the T_V_ sound turns off . Means you say you should say like does that , remote control being on or be on kind of thing , and then remote control comes in the picture for the speech recognition . user interface: Okay , so , could I describe the mouse maybe be easier to project manager: Sorry ? user interface: could I use the mouse , or project manager:  yeah . industrial designer: project manager: user interface: Okay so  while  researching this this topic I first of all just thought of a couple of things that I would like to see in a remote , and just  looked to see if they're actually available in any current remotes , and then also searched for which are the top-rated  remote controls on Epinions dot com , which is a a you know a a customer  written basically review site . So  there's a pretty wide range of  remote controls these days and and  this remote control on the right here is is one of the more extravagant , but it's not really it's by no means   you know on it's own in being so expensive . project manager: Looks like a P_D_A_ ? user interface: So yeah it doe it's well basically all the functions  are controlled through through the L_C_D_ screen except for the really really kind of main functions , which have a couple of of their own buttons .  and if you look at a lot of the universal remotes out  on the market , I know we're working on television remote , but a lot of the universal remotes out there have  have these L_C_D_ screens which kind of helps when you're using multiple  devices I suppose because you can have multiple kind of functions d different functions on the screen at different times . But  the thing that I find most interesting about this remote control , and it's kind of difficult to  to see in the slide , but it has a scroll wheel on it , which is kind of like  a mouse scroll wheel , which I think is it's a really kind of important design aspect  is it's 'Cause the thing is what a what we the presen this presentation we had is what we want the remote control to actually do . user interface:  the I think that a scroll wheel is actually pretty a pretty handy way of of changing the channel . 'Cause I know when I  when I use the remote to change the channel I very rarely use the numbers on the on the pad . user interface: because most channels are you know two digit numbers and you have to press you know a special button to enter a two-digit number , and then two numbers , so that's just  it's annoying . Now  the the scroll wheel is is much more useful if you have an L_C_D_ screen , and this brings us to the the point you were mentioning before about the internet  capability . user interface: One possibility , if we now we need to still talk about the price point because obviously a lot of this stuff can't be done for twenty five Eu  Euro , but one possibility is to download program information into the L_C_D_ screen so that instead of actually saying I want to I want to go to channel thirty seven because I know this programme's on , you know , often you don't know what ch what channel it's on , or you don't know what's on . If you have a list of of programs on your L_C_D_ screen you just scroll to that program rather than to a channel . So if you think about it's kind of like a you know in mobile phones now you don't use you don't remember people's phone number , you remember their name and you go find that name and ring it . project manager: user interface: So this would be pretty kind of a handy thing to have , but  we we really need t to discuss the price . So ,  there are there are  cheaper this is another multi kinda purpose remote control where it's it's it's very simple , there's only a few buttons , but al each of those buttons does something different in a different context . So this is something else we might wanna consider , is really kind of limiting the number of buttons , because this is the top rating  universal remote control on on Epinions . It it's really  maybe worth thinking about limiting the number of buttons as much as as possible  because really I think people want to be able to find the button they're looking for without even looking at the remote control . And was saying before about having different size buttons for different you know frequently used  tasks , but I think also you know the location and and shape of the buttons is important , but also the number of buttons . So if you have too many buttons it it it increases the the difficulty of finding the one you want . user interface: Yeah well we will have a bit of a simpler  task in that we're only doing  a television remote control .  I think maybe one option is to have you know a little flip-open  door that  that you have hidden most of the time , but contains the extra buttons like , say , the number buttons for instance . user interface: I I would if I had my perfect remote control , I'd probably just have no numbers at all on it because they're just in the way . Maybe you know I although I do also find flip-open doors a bit of a pain because sometimes they can break off or or whatever , but maybe a door that you can you can permanantly remove or permanantly have on would be good . user interface:  but I think definitely you need to to keep the buttons down to a minimum , but not not let that kind of interfere with the functionality of of the device .  marketing: H I think I think that the tr the transition to this to this new remote control shouldn't be very very abrupt very hard because w if people see a remo see the see a remote control without numbers  they will think it's very difficult to learn very difficult to very different build very different to the traditional industrial designer: It does sampling out of the . If you if you have the right advertisement showing how how how easy it is and how you can , you know , navigate to a program without the numbers , then people might say that looks pretty easy . marketing: If y project manager: Okay , can you continue , please Mi ? user interface: So , but marketing: user interface: yep .  okay , so , I think  one of the really kind of useful things you can do with with internet connectivity would be to have this a programme driven interface rather than the channel number . So if we can have a higher priced  remote control I think that would really be worth  something that would be worth implementing .   there's the L_C_D_ screen ,  which maybe maybe is too expensive ,  but I think also at the scroll wheel , I haven't mentioned it here , the scroll wheel could be used without an L_C_D_ screen , just for changing channel numbers easily . I think even that , project manager: user interface: that would be a fairly cheap thing , compared to an L_C_D_ screen , to implement , project manager: And the other thing , you say we need to we need to keep it just television , but I think one maybe one option , since this is supposed to be a kind of a fashionable device , is you know there's a certain kind of cool or wow factor that you can kind of you can have with technology , and maybe we wanna make it something that's extensible to do other tasks . Say you have like  a little another little kind of base unit that can also receive signals as well as the television where you can , say  , change the lighting in the room . You know that would be something maybe you could sell as an extra , so that it doesn't have to be part of the initial development , but , you know , later on you could you can you know you also , selling the potential of the device . Then you say potentially you can then do other cool stuff like change the lights , I dunno , close the windows , whatever , turn the heating on , and  , I think that's something we may need to have as as at least as an optional extra to to kinda make our product cool , since we say we're putting the fashion in electronics . project manager: user interface: industrial designer: So most of the things which we are discussing about is speech recognition  , that means on my own I project manager: This one ? industrial designer: yeah , it should be . industrial designer: Okay so the working design is  user i interface could be of two types , one is the usual press buttons which are there so that the user feels that he is knoing doing some he is knowing about that technology . So he is pretty comfortable if he wants to get this , and on top of that there there could be a speech recognition technology also being sitting on the on the remote . So the old kind of users who don't want to have any changes , it can it can be useful for them , and the new users , as  our Marketing Expert was saying , they can use the new gizmo which is speech recognition kind of thing . project manager: Okay , sorry to interrupt you , but we have seen before that there is a new way of interacting that use wheel . project manager: industrial designer: Means we can have , depending on the cost , how much we can afford , we can have different kind of interfaces . So if you go to the market and you say that buttons are there the people know what it is , project manager: industrial designer: and on top of that if we are having extra functionality people are willing to shell that twenty-five Euros money which we are thinking . So anyway that is the first , user interface could be of more than one type , and  yeah that means we can do the on-line changes which which cannot be done now actually . And for voice , limited vocabulary automatic speech recognition system is required and we require a microphone also to be sitting there on the remote . project manager: Do you think that performance of such systems are enough to to target well of such technologies is enough ? industrial designer:  yes , if it is limited vocabulary usually it's enough . industrial designer: Yeah we we can  target , means we can target ninety five percent accuracy or somewhere ninety seven perc project manager: Well wh  I imagine also that the microphone will be an ambiance  a  an ambience microphones user interface:  . No it it could be little d yeah it could be project manager: So it could be s a few centimetres . user interface: Well one one other thing that that speech recognition could really blow out the price for is  when you want to sell into other markets , though , industrial designer: That's right . user interface: because , I'm not sure exactly where we're gonna sell this , but I presume it's not gonna just be English speaking countries . user interface: So then you have to s you know , you have to train models for industrial designer: -  it's more like , means there are different speech technologies which are existing so D_T_W_ could be kind of which is the easiest . So you have to store some templates on the on the on the chip itself , and it's just dynamic time warping where you try to find out what it is , instead of having a model which has to be trained and being a micro-controller . We are having a power button and the switch , which is not much , user interface: industrial designer: and then we are having the which is to indicate whether the power is on or not . And then there are two kind of things which can be so one is the button interface which has not been shown because because of lack of time . So now where the A_S_R_ decoder is sitting , similarly there are different kind of interfaces which could be there . So there is A_S_R_ decoder which could be there , and then there could be another scroll button scroll scroller , and then there could be buttons , and all of them they will just do the decoding and put it in the math put it in the proper message format . And then there is there is the chip which is sitting , the green one , and it converts it into bit codes , and that bit codes are sent by the infrared device to the receiver . So this was the my personal preference was that we can have A_S_R_ sitting there on the remote control . project manager: user interface: You know I guess you could actually train the remote control as you're using it by saying you know turn volume up , and you press the  press the button industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: like  s people teach sign language to kids f well , by speaking and doing industrial designer: Yeah but  as soon as you try to put the microchip kind of thing or something the price will go up . project manager: So your your opinion is that we should go for special condition technologies ? industrial designer: Because yeah the reason is that if we go into the market means though I don't have much idea , but as he the  Marketing Expert presentation was marketing: I'm sure if you can sell a a speech recognition remote control for twenty five Euros everyo everyone will s will buy it . user interface: Actually I'm not so sure industrial designer: So if we go with just the user interface: because I'm the marketing: I'm sure . user interface: you know if I was using a remote control to , say , turn the volume up because I can't hear it very well , I don't really want to you know drown out what people are saying by talking you know when I'm when I'm instead of pressing up on on a remote control . You know if there's some there's some dialogue all of a sudden that I can't hear , I'm trying to actually find out what's being said , project manager: Yeah . project manager: Okay so marketing: Yeah but you know the the average frequency of pushing buttons , it's about user interface: Well it depends if it's a remote control th marketing: it's about eighty eighty eighty pushes per hour , or something like that . user interface: Maybe if the remote control is something that y you don't actually have to pick up anymore , that would be a a useful feature of the speech recogntion . marketing: user interface: If you can leave it sitting on the table and you don't actually have to find it , then that could be . project manager:  so if I if I kind of summarise everything we've de we we said . We need we need to have   remote control which is fanc fancy , which is  which is easy to to hand not too small , not too big . We should bring new technologies for young peoples , and  as we have  also requirements to to use  to to push thr toward the internet . And  also , a very interesting things I I I've seen on on on the one of the comp o our competitor is this wheel that we can use to navigate . So so my feeling is that re regarding costs budget we have an an an target price , it's not possible to go s to go to L_C_D_ and also to go to automatic speech recognition technologies . Because  in fact as we are targeting  T_V_ in fact we can use T_V_ screen as a screen to feedback to to give some feedback informations about what we could have . If we we don't unless we have some input some video input to the T_V_ or we have control over the T_V_ then we can't actually display that . Like if we if we produce the T_V_s then then yeah we can put you know menus up up there , but otherwise we need to actually have some kind of something sitting in between the video signal and the and the T_V_ to superimpose those those menus . project manager: don't we have contacts with  people on T_V_ or or well systems that exist that we can use ? user interface: Well this is this is another que we still haven't really defined the remote . Are we still you say we're focusing on T_V_ , but is it still a kind of like a universal remote in that it's a replacement remote control , or is this something for our own line of of televisions ? project manager: Yeah . 'Cause even if we have contacts we can't really produce a remote control that can bring up menus on other other companies' T_V_s . What's what cou what could be the cost of  well , could we fit the the targets  in terms of cost  if we go s to L_C_D_ on the remote control ? user interface: For twenty five Euro ? I think it's impossible . user interface: I think  it would be good to know if there is any leverage in that any leeway in that  that twenty five Euro because for twenty five Euro I think all we can really do is provide a very basic remote control , and that seems to be kind of against the philosophy of our company which is you know putting the fashion into electronics . So I would I would like to know if there's any chance of of increasing the  marketing:  user interface: of increasing the unit price . project manager: So you mean yo you mean we we should target something maybe which is which would be more expensive but re really fancy in terms to  in terms to had to have really an added value ? marketing: What would be user interface: Yeah . project manager: so regarding the automatic speech recognition , I think this is marketing: Wha but what would be one question , what would be the goal of putting an L_C_D_ in a remote control ? user interface: Well th marketing: What what kind of information ? user interface: 'Cause you can have things like the programme name instead of the channel numbers , like an interactive programme guide . marketing: Yeah but mo most of the T_V_s nowadays show the show the project manager: They have tele teletext . marketing: the n project manager: Th th you have a teletext sin signal that you can that you can  that you can get thr through the channel . project manager: They have t most of them have teletext , but we want to get rid well one of our requirements is to  to move to teletext to  to the use of internet . marketing: So what would what would appear in the in the L_C_D_ ? user interface: So you could have the name of the programme , you could have  the start time you know where it's up to . project manager: The ti the start time , all the p all the programmes you could have  o user interface: You could have a l even a little image of you know the c you know the the m the main actors or something marketing: Okay . user interface: so you can quickly just kind of even without reading project manager: Well I don't know if this information is available from teletext , also . project manager: Well because for the same reason that we cannot  informations on the T_V_ . project manager: So so that mean w w we need an in an extra internet connection to use the remote control , if you want to browse , in addition to the T_V_ , or  or it should be a special T_V_ connected to marketing: But Yeah . user interface: Well I I think if we're gonna I think we would definitely need the internet connection because even with y I don't think you could even get teletext information from the T_V_ onto the remote control , especially if we don't control the T_V_ . industrial designer: what kind of market we are targeting ? Is it that we are targeting the replacement remote market , or what ? So the remote has gone bad and the person wants to buy a new remote or because the cost of L_C_D_ thing could be as high as the T_V_ itself . project manager: Yeah , well people go to buy another remote control when they broke n broke their , user interface: If it's a really small T_V_ maybe . project manager: and they want to go t for universal one , and they take the fanciest they can have . So the com the  the  the committment is the following , we don't go for speech recognition technology . project manager: It is up to you to go through this   this way and to to report report me back next meeting . So marketing: I think that the speech recognition technology would be cheaper the than the L_C_D_ . industrial designer: It's it's cheaper as compared to the L_C_D_ . Maybe it's cheaper , but we have no marketing: Because with the L_C_D_ you need more requirements . user interface: marketing: But user interface: Well the thing is I think I think the type of peop marketing: for the speech recognition you you don't need anything . user interface: I think the type of people that are gonna want to buy a very stylish rem r remote control with lots of new technologies are the kinda people that are gonna have you know a wireless internet connection maybe , or a you know . marketing: But then we should move to another target b because at twenty five Dollars , industrial designer: Means th yeah twenty five Euros is yeah , that's right . marketing: it's user interface: Can we can we increase the the price point of this remote control ? 'Cause otherwise we need project manager: Okay this is this is an open question for you . But I'm definitely not keen on to to marketing: To move to another target ? project manager: no no no , I'm no I'm definit definitely not keen on going to speech recognition technologies . I  that work user interface: It's kind of hard to guarantee that you're gonna project manager: It's real yeah . project manager:  you have to work on user interface , and you have to go through a trend watching 