user interface: No I don't think so it has to be like that yeah and you have to adjust the length . I thin industrial designer: Yeah but the the mic should not user interface: It's not a directional mic , anyway . project manager: So w we will try to structure this  meeting with an a with an agenda  as presented here . So ,  We have been provided with  some  w technical tools to  to communicate and to well , learn from each other's plans  as I can say  so w we will also try to  to get acquainted to this tools so they are also new to me I don't know whether you worked with them before . You all know I hope how it's about  the  new r remote control we are going going to design . project manager:  then we will  discuss  , well , how it should be and  wh what  what our new product should look lite like . Be  we want to be distinguished ,  ? People  want to  when they look at the shelf want to think , well that's the product I I need . But then , it also should work  user friendly and  otherwise people   well it will not be  be rated very well in consumer  articles and like that . industrial designer: project manager: So , the general outline of  new project will be we first  go through a functional design phase .  You all get   certain task  in this  in this phase and  then we will meet again and  discuss this functional design . And the same holds for the  ph two phases  after this , the conceptual design and after that a a more detailed design in which the the final project should get its definite shape . In all in front of you  you see  the  notebooks and w  n note blocks and we have here a a a a white-board . project manager: And  well it should work  I've read it from my  from some colleague that it should work with some kind of toolbar . I didn't find out yet how it work , but maybe one of you did , so  industrial designer: Under documents in the shared folder . Do Do we have to say something about that ? I I I'm not fully updated about this shared folder  . industrial designer: Yeah , I guess we'll have a shared folder  with documents that we can share . Well , this seems to me , yes , some computer program but I didn't find it yet . project manager: Well , yes ,  we  we should try to t to draw on it and then well it should be smart some way . I I'm not really sure how this works , but industrial designer: Okay , shall I start ? marketing:  . marketing: I think for us it's just like a normal whiteboard , but they'll be recording what we write down . user interface: industrial designer: But it's marketing: industrial designer: Actually , I think I cannot go with  project manager: You you D doesn't it work ? Maybe someo Maybe maybe Anna , maybe you can start . project manager: So  L Why don't you draw  your favourite animal on on th on the white-board . industrial designer: user interface: You know ? Pro specially we should next project we should take l like that . project manager: So , marketing: It's not a cat , project manager: that's the cat . project manager: So but that's also kind of cat , user interface: Oh project manager: isn't it ? user interface: the dog doesn't have a tail ? marketing: It's got a tail then .  d did you  work out cord ? industrial designer: user interface: marketing: And you guessed cats without a tail . industrial designer: right ? user interface: It'll still not extend , right ? It's not up to that . So marketing: Ah project manager: I suppose it user interface: Ah I think you can put that . user interface: I'll tell to get it off my project manager: Ma Matthew ? user interface:  ? project manager: industrial designer: And we should sum up its favourite charas characteristics , right ? marketing: So you've all drawn land animals , marketing: project manager: so why not draw an animal from the water . user interface: The cat is going to eat the fish or the rat ? industrial designer: With different pen widths . marketing: project manager: Oh , yes , why not ? industrial designer: project manager: Good idea . user interface: you know it's going to eat the cat rather than the cat eating the fish , no ? industrial designer: Oh . So I dunno if we need to spend time on that , actually But  user interface: You should go for the next one it seems to me .  when we are and when w you are  going to design w  we must keep in mind that the selling price of the product  will be about twenty five Euros , so when designing a project  I also look at you  Mael , keep in mind    People  user interface: Twenty four .  industrial designer: project manager: more interesting for our company of course , p  profit aim , about fifty million Euro .  we will try to  to get at a international market  so  it will be I think mainly Europe and  Northern America , user interface: Ah yeah , the sale man , four million .  also important for you all is  the the product  production cost must be maximal  twelve  twelve Euro and fifty cents .    we still have to  to make a profit , huh ? user interface: They have to sell at least four million to make a profit industrial designer: Of course . project manager: Excuse me ? user interface: Ah we have to make we have to sell at least four million to make our own profit . project manager: So  well I think w when we are working on the international market ,  in principle it has enough customers industrial designer: Yeah . project manager:  so when we have a good product we  we could  meet this this aim , I think . And  now just let have some discussion about what is a good remote control and  well keep in mind this this first point , it has to be original , it has to be trendy , it has to be user friendly . project manager: Yes , well i it should have the the the the expected functionality  of a remote control . user interface: You need to browse the browse the channels in upward downward way , marketing:  . Th th that's very handy I I always miss it and on some remote controls that you can go channel up or down ins instead of retyping the number , especially when you have a lot of channels . user interface: and industrial designer: And  just before starting the detailed discussion , maybe we are the marketing guy ? Or marketing: I'm marketing . project manager: So user interface: I thi think you know me , industrial designer:  so yeah  Just  on your web page but  yeah not  not face to face . project manager: Are there some other very important things to to do well , user interface: So industrial designer: So I project manager: to specify in this first phase of of the project . user interface: And  , you'd need the usual ones , like the changing the volume , changing the the channel and then you  project manager: Yes . project manager: well  I I think  w y you two should should , I think , think this over  w espec what , what functionality . industrial designer: Actually , yeah user interface: Let's Let's take industrial designer: w Of course , and first before  designing the func well thinking about the functionalities , we need to know what are the user requirements . industrial designer:  then if they need internet , then we would be able to to p to propose something with   T_V_ over I_P_ . But Ninety percent of the time , ninety nine percent of the time , people will be using the main functions , the volume , the different channels , so we can have all the fancy things as well but the main controls need to be very obvious and very easy to use . Keep k keep in mind i it's a it's a twenty five Euro unit , so   the the very fancy stuff  w we can leave that out , I think . project manager: So twenty five Euro you expect a quite , well normal but good functioning user friendly remote control . user interface: Oh in that case you can you always hook up with  someone who is providing that and you know , you you sell their product as well as your product with them , you know . project manager: Yes , but but but ab about the spec the buttons , the buttons  that will be on it . project manager: well just just for the next meeting ,  user interface: L project manager: well , you wor yes , work on a design , keep it general ,  so w we will be still fle flexible with maybe adding some functions . project manager:  you will be working on on technical function design , so user interface: Yeah , sure . project manager: eh ? Does it need internet , or or do do we stay at basic basic television  interface 