It's Ada Longmund ? project manager: So , I'll present myself , I'm Ada Longmund , and as you may know it , I'm the pr project manager . Our project project is to create  a new remote control and as you may know there's lot of industrials interesting in creating a remote control , so the remote control has to be original , trendy and  user-friendly . So if we're  the functional design , you have to do  any individual work and  also work with  meetings talking with each other . marketing: project manager: The tool training is to try out the white board , so industrial designer: Maybe someone ha we have to this whiteboard , marketing: industrial designer: yeah ? marketing: project manager: Maybe you can draw your favourite animal industrial designer: project manager: and make a list of its favourite characteristics . marketing: So right now ? project manager: I don't know if we have to do it now , maybe later later . project manager: And  user interface: project manager: it will  be a an international remote control , industrial designer: Is project manager: as we want to sell it in the entire world , and the product costs will be not more than twelve Euros and fifty centimes . So , as you will discuss about the remote control you will have to experience your  with the remote control .  just  maybe be imaginative with remote const con controls , industrial designer: marketing: project manager: try to create something new and people would like to to buy . And and the next meeting will start in thirty minutes , so you'll ha all have your spethisfispis specif specific role and you know I suppose you know what you have to do . I I hope so project manager: And  you will have to work on the design and also to work on the design of th technical fun functions of the remote control and think of the user requirement specifications . project manager: So industrial designer: I_D_ is for the Industrial Design , yeah ? marketing: Okay . industrial designer: And U_I_D_ , it's for the User Interface Designer , user interface: That's me . project manager: I suppose you have to design it and you have to take care of the industrial way to transform it . user interface: You you de you implement the core functions in the project manager: And i maybe you will transform it . industrial designer: I I think the user the user interface design is he will design how the user will you know the relation between the user and you know the remote control so user interface: Use it . But I was thinking that he's a user 'cause the user interface to design for example where the but button will be , you know . So and the marketing expert will marketing: Yeah , I'm just go I'm trying to give you some trends about what should be done and what the users would like to have project manager: And marketing: and then thi this would I guess converged to the User Interface Designer wi and then Industrial Designer . project manager: And when designing y the remote control just remember that  it has to be a kind of international product . You know , you have Qwerty , Azerty , French and U_K_ keyboard , user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: project manager: Yeah , you have to keep in mind that the product cost won't be maxim more than twelve dot fifty Euros . project manager: And to be sure that really people will be interested in buying a new remote control with maybe new functionalities that don't exist in the  existing remote controls now . industrial designer: There was a step about drawing something in the in the board , I don't know . project manager: industrial designer: Is it ? Are we supposed to do right now ? user interface: Yeah yeah , you try . industrial designer: Oh right it's it's from the left to the ri It's project manager: So user interface: project manager: you think we have to do it now ? industrial designer: I d I was thinking but I n I'm not sure now . project manager: You want me to draw something ? industrial designer: Oh project manager: Product manager industrial designer: Everybody project manager: okay , let's go , user interface: Oh , maybe we should bring Kemy here . project manager: user interface: You're going to draw ? industrial designer: user interface: Okay . industrial designer: Yeah , it is a user interface: Can you draw   rabbit ? industrial designer: user interface: Oh , hat ha rat . industrial designer: right , but in grow , it's marketing: Jus user interface: Okay . What's this ? industrial designer: What are you I don no idea , so user interface: project manager: Yeah , that was the eyes . So what else ? This was my favourite one , industrial designer: So you don't have a project manager: Thank you . project manager: industrial designer: That's a that's a fish ? user interface: industrial designer: Okay , let's try to draw something . industrial designer: Yeah , it's it's a se it's my priority this one . user interface: industrial designer: So what are you sug going to do now ? marketing: I think it's done . project manager: You know your job ? you know your job ? industrial designer: We have an idea yeah . project manager: You know your job ? industrial designer: I have an idea of my job so yeah so 