So , we're here today to to have our first kick-off meeting about  this new project we're going to tak to talk about in a few minutes . So , we are going to go through this agenda  and mainly first to  to make to to be used to the tools  available in this nice and smart meeting room we have here . During each step  of each design we wi you will work  s separately , individually on  your specific tasks and will m we will meet to  to discuss and take decisions about  what you've you've you did and what  we will do next . So first , we have to to train ourself with all the  the tools availables in the in this nice meeting room and  particularly the the white board so  we are going to go through the white board and take some  s some notes or do some drawings . Well , I don't really have a favourite animal , but  project manager: You have one in mind ? user interface:  I think I have one in mind , so  I'm gonna about the  spider because you can actually draw it pretty well in the corner of a white board . The spider has a spider lives in a web and  it has eight legs , and  it can move all about the web in two dimensions . There are some spiders that live in like that have like  kind of a a big ball of a of a web . And  the other thing is some spiders can actually  fly like  they have  they let out like  a stream of like the web building material but it's it acts like a parachute so they can actually kind of go and find new  build a new web somewhere else . So I think they did this in  in Charlotte's Web that movie that little  well it's actually a book first but   at the end all the the spiders kinda flew away . Guillermo you want to ? marketing: 'kay I dunno why , but when I was a child I I wanted to be a a panther project manager: marketing: not a pink panther , industrial designer: But don't you think it's very difficult to draw a panther ? marketing: or maybe yes . user interface: industrial designer: user interface: Maybe it's happy 'cause it just ate someone . Actually , honestly I I I dunno what's what's his it's be behaviour , I dunno if if it's the male who who hunts or it's the female  , I I I have watched that lions di didn't hunt it's the the female lions who who hunt , so but I like it because it's fast , and it's black as well , so it can he it can hide itself very easily and it's it's it looks like  powerful , strong ,  I dunno . I I watch a a film about a black panther when I was a child and I was in that age when everything was shocking me a lot . project manager: user interface: So you don't like pink panthers ? marketing: I like it . I don't know whether there's any dist there should be any distance or not , but I think this is the easiest . It seems that  elephants are pretty friendly and they they have one very important way a different way of walking . So when they walk , wherever they are going to put their first feet , the second feet will always be . At least few few hundred years ago when there was no means of transportations or something , or when they had to carry huge  loads from one place to another , elephants were very useful . user interface: So is this  an Indian or an African elephant , 'cause you haven't drawn the ears ? industrial designer: There are two kind of  yeah , they are very different , Indian and African elephants . And then there's a difference in the trunk of the animals , these elephants who are Indian and So at some for some elephants it's the trunk is having one Do we have some message there ? project manager: Yes . project manager: Yeah we'll discuss a f a fly or do we'll do another meeting abo on elephants . project manager: So user interface: project manager: so another important part of the project is about money ,  and about so about finances . So we should target selling price of twenty-five Euro for this remote control and  we have  which which would generate a profit of of  fifty million Euros , okay . user interface: So could I just ask one question ,  is this a stand-alone unit that we're gonna be selling ? So it's gonna be you already have a T_V_ but you're buying an extra remote control for it or something ? project manager: O this is the next topic we have to discuss exactly , user interface: Okay , alright . Should be should should it be  specific remote control to some specific device ? Should it be a universal one ? And  etcetera . So  so I'm waiting for your for your inputs very quickly because we have only three three minutes to go . user interface: Okay well , so , it seems the the first thing that they've kinda specified is the price like based on how much profit we wanna make , which seems to a kind of a little strange if we don't know what the the product is yet , but I guess if that's if that's the requirement that we need to to design the the product to actually fit that that price bracket so , I guess we're gonna need to find out what's actually you know , what people ar are willing to pay for  what kind of product they're expecting for twenty-five Euro project manager: Okay . user interface: because it seems quite a lot for a remote control , project manager: Okay I think this is more a job to our user interface: so it's project manager: market person yeah . project manager: So it should be the topic of maybe of the next meeting just to to have an overview of this and  in which direction we should go .  we'll have a new meeting soon and  so the work every every of you ha have t d to do . So  you have to work on the on the working design , you have to  work on the technical functions , and  you have to work on us user requirements specs , alright ? marketing: Yeah 