Then  I'm going to talk about  the project management , what I'm going to do , and  , of course , I'm doing the project management and secretary both , okay , to take the minutes of the meeting . And I have come up with the management come with the new proposal , okay , and I have to discuss a few points on this .  the one is  the teletext becomes  outmoded , okay because if  because of the computer systems and the new technology . So we don't need to consider really about the teletext all in our new project design . And the third point , it's very very important to establish our  marketing or  corporate image , okay , with this new project or new product . So I will invite  Agnes , can you go to the third slide ? user interface: No , this is the third slide . user interface: Do you want the mouse , or do you want me to industrial designer: I'll do the notes . project manager: industrial designer: So  well I I figured  we should  identify some user requirements , and from my experience , I wanna  , and from research I did ,  the the device has to turn the television on and off the first time you press on the big button , you can't  can't have like  waffling on this point , you know . project manager: industrial designer: Really have It needs to be able y y have to be able to find it . So  , I also , since we have to establish our corporate image on the basis of this new product , thought we better look at things that are popular and  ex go beyond those , and , as I said in the first meeting ,  and then  we might wanna talk eventually about the materials that are appropriate to use in  in the construction , especially in the the  the outside of the product project manager: industrial designer: so that it gives the appearance , and it is reliable , and so forth . I did a little history on  the the  remote controls and when they were invented and so forth , so , I guess this guy Zenith  created the Flashmatic , which I kinda like the idea , 'cause it made me think of   maybe the remote control made a big flash when  you turn the T_V_ on and off , that might be interesting . And  so it was highly directional flash light that  you could turn the picture on and off , and the sound on and off , and change channels c so I think  those are still requirements we have today ,  fifty years later . industrial designer: And  it was really a pioneering innovation , but it was  sensitive to the sun , so that  it would get would start off by the you'd get it would easily cause  problems . So ,  I in addition to  looking at the   the functional requir so all these devices are examples of where   they represent examples that are available today which I think the one in the middle is r  really  something to keep in mind . And  it would  y you'd you could throw it at things if if the T_V_ didn't turn on and off , you could use it for something else . And since I'm not really  Industrial Designer , I didn't really know what to do with this slide . But  I just took some different  schematics and I put them into this , and I guess this is what a slide might look like if you were drawing a circuit board . So ,  personal preferences ,  user interface: industrial designer: I think we could  I I'm really thinking outside the box here , and I think that we should consider perhaps having an an an a a size  a remote control that changes in size depending on the user preference . user interface: industrial designer: So something that's very very flexible and inflatable and then you could shrink it . I think  it could either be you could go either one extreme , be very colourful , or you could make it clear , and  kind of blend in with things , so you didn't have to   have a problem with the th the decoration of the of the user's home .  I think  it needs to be waterproof , because  sometimes they fall into cups project manager: industrial designer: and , you know , it might be out by the swimming pool or something like that .  if you  mi one of one of my requirements was about needs t to tell you when it's done its job or not , because half the time , I keep pushing on the remote control , and I don't know if it's actually understood my message , so I think it should give you some sort of an oral cue . So , marketing: industrial designer: that's those are my f preferences , and that's my presentation . project manager: Yeah , let me  interrupt you  if you can add other facility , other feature , like  unbreakable . project manager: Okay , because  especially today , you know , you have the family and the kids , user interface: project manager: okay , and the kids throw it and they they play with their remotes and . Okay , so if you can add the feature , okay , for your  fabric whatever in your outline design okay , with unbreakable , okay , I think that will give a lot of advantage for our product , if I'm not wrong . project manager: Okay ,  thank you Christine , and   any questions or  clarifications , or any discussion on the functional design ? user interface: Do you have any preconceived ideas in terms of materials ? 'Cause , for example , in the unbreakable thing , doing something plastic would be harder , industrial designer:  . user interface: whereas having something like , I dunno , steel or titanium isn't really economically viable . industrial designer: No , I haven't really  I wanted feedback , I think we need to rate rank these , but we'll see what your  personal preferences are and your thoughts . industrial designer: you know , nobody told me how mu what our financial objective is , so  project manager: Yeah so industrial designer: It'd be hard to inflate something ou made out of titanium though . project manager: Yeah the the I'm sorry because  the last meeting we supposed to discuss about the financial thing . marketing: I don't know , project manager: Okay ,  marketing: I think verbally we can we can pretty much sell . project manager: I will I will send you a mail , okay ? The project may be the the project aim , okay . Okay , that maybe Eddie will talk to you about  how much  the price and  what's  how much its cost for the manufacturing and how much it's going to be we sell in the market . This remote control , okay , it can be for like universal , to use for any T_V_ . Okay , and it will be slim , okay , and  industrial designer: Not fat ? project manager: Not fat . But let's try it , okay , with the different  the designs , okay , the functional designs . project manager: Okay ? So any other questions ? marketing:  from her side , I don't think  there's too many more questions . Thank you Christine for  time being , marketing: If you can come to the project manager: so then  Ed , so can you tell about marketing: Okay , from the marketing yeah , from the marketing side , just to to give an idea what the management is looking for , I was looking for a a remote control to have a s user interface: S 'scuse me for one sec . marketing: I have a sales price of twenty-five Euro , with a production price of  twelve and a half Euro . For what  I think from what we're trying to find , we're tr we're looking for , I don't think that price is exactly in the market . marketing: I'll explain myself here now in the sense that  in a in the recent surveys ,  from the ages fr from fifteen to thirty-five , eighty percent are willing to spend more money for something as fancy as trendy . project manager: marketing: Twenty-five Euros ,  that's that's a preson reasonable price . Now if we're gonna take a risk , and push this up a bit , make it more expensive , project manager: Yep . But , I think  there's one other thing interesting two things that are interesting is that  from the fifteen to thirty-five year-old group , which always spends more money on trendy new things , speech recognition is requested . marketing: And we're talking between seventy-five to ninety percent of this group is willing to pay for speech recognition on a remote . That might be a possibility , even though it costs more , to be the first on the market to produce this . industrial designer: marketing: So maybe one word speech recognition commands , say remote , and there's a beep beep beep , and they can find it through , you know , ten tons of newspapers , magazines , whatever you have at home . project manager: marketing: But , in the cost that  the management is looking for , that's not gonna be possible . But if it's trendy , if it's fancy , it's got some colour to it , if it's very easy easy to use , if it's got simple remote speech remote  control , like I said , louder , softer , change channel , on , off , remote , it goes beep beep , I can find my my remote without spending half a day looking for it and getting all upset 'cause I can't turn the T_V_ on . So we're gonna have to look at it in a in this global idea , with the ideas of the industrial  design . So what do you think about  the design ? Do you think you can make it or  industrial designer: D  I'm sorry ? project manager: What do you think about  the design ,  what he was talking about of the speech recognition ? marketing: Speech recognition . industrial designer: So  might  we can perhaps  do it if the user is willing to spend some time in the training process ,  it could reduce th th  the overall  cost . And  so , maybe what we'll have to do is  add something where you can  recharge it wirelessly so that  y you know sen send power to it . So  or maybe  set it out in the sun and it  , you know , gets  , from the light ,  a a solar cell inside there user interface:  . user interface: It seems also like with the speech recognition , yeah , it's a great feature , but if you're watching T_V_ , there's a lot of ambient sound , and it's words . It's actual speech , so then you have to make sure that the speech recognizer is good enough to filter out the T_V_ speech , and the the user's speech . user interface: But if someone on the screen is saying the same thing , all of a sudden , you have someone in a movie saying off and your screen dies , because they've triggered the remote control and it's turned off your T_V_ . So , I think if we can find a speech recognizer that can handle those types of problems , then yeah , it'd be a really good marketing gimmick . marketing: Because tha w with speech recognition  th I'm not that good at that idea user interface: marketing: but th if it's a one-word recognition , 'cause I know with telephones and cars and things I've seen in the States , user interface: Yeah . marketing: Because I think s with speech recognition , if  the the remote or like the telephone it has a exact word that it has to hear . If somebody's speaking on the se the television , they're not gonna stop and say remote , user interface: No , I think it's a great idea if we can design it to to suit those requirements . No because I this is this is years ago in the United States where we're driving down and he said call home , and the telephone called immediately user interface: Yeah . project manager: Well , what I can  suggest to you , Christine , okay ,  if you need some  the technical feedback , or some training , okay , about  this facility , especially for the speech recognition , I can recommend you some companies like  Intel or I_B_M_ , okay , because they're already in this  speech recognition part , okay . Okay , and  if you want , I can coordinate , okay , to get some information , okay , and  you can  let me know , okay , so what kind of  the details you require okay , to add this feature in this project . And  we need to know how much is the timeframe you need to develop , apart from  what today . marketing: From from your side  , you're gonna have to go back the management and s be more s precise . marketing: a risk , take a risk on the market ? Something that's gonna cost more , but could very easily s make a boom in the market ? project manager: Yes . project manager: but end of the day , you're the sales guy , so I will come back and sit on your head because  you are going to give your sales projection , marketing: user interface: project manager: okay . It's  of course it's  good to  tell the management how much it's cost us marketing: And  , so I don't mind to convince , okay , the management to spend some more money on the project , okay , if you can make out of marketing: Obviously . project manager: Yes , okay I don't mind to convince the the management , user interface: project manager: okay . project manager: The management says , okay , so they they don't want certain facilities , which it's already worked , okay , they want something  new , okay . I think  like  speech recognit definitely they will agree , I don't think they'll say no for that , okay . So if you have any  new ideas , okay , for  your you can always come up and  you can tell me if you need any  s special , okay , coordination , okay , between any  technical companies , which you can  hide their technology backup , okay , for your  functional design or technical design , okay , then I am ready to do that . And  what's your comments about  user interface:  well , maybe if I go through my presentation , you can sort of see what the user perspective is , and how it ties into the other two comments . So , basically , the method that we usually use in the user interface design is that we need to look at what people like and what people don't like about existing products . And then , what the good ideas are , and what the bad ideas are , and why they're bad and good , which isn't always as obvious . We seem to have intuitions about why things are good or things are bad , but when you look , technically , at how it works , sometimes that's not the case . Then we need to decide what functionalities we really want to keep , 'cause that'll feed into both Ed's work and Christine's work .  and then what the remote control should look like , obviously , once we've got a good idea of what the functionalities are . So , in terms of the functionalities that we need , you obviously need to be able to turn the T_V_ on and off . You need to be able to control the volume and then control any menus on the T_V_ to regulate contrast or whatever . So , the problems that people have expressed is that there's too many buttons on remote controls , in general .  often , you need to know specific button sequences to get certain functionalities done ,  which you don't necessarily always remember , especially if it's a functionality that you don't use very often . So , here we've got two examples where here on the left-hand side , you can see a remote control that has lots and lots of buttons .  they're hard to see , and okay , they're labelled , but the labels don't necessarily tell you too much . Whereas , on the other side , you have a much simpler remote control that I think basically has the minimum functionalities that are needed . So , I would be inclined to go sort of towards this , in terms of design , rather than this . And if there's specific functionalities that require more buttons , then we can figure out how to do it with existing  buttons . So my personal preferences are to keep the number of buttons to a limit , or to a minimum , sorry , make frequently used buttons bigger and more strategically placed , so like the on button being really obvious one , the channel changing and the volume , and to keep the design basically sleek and simple .  so , that's pretty much it , an I don't know if you guys have any questions or industrial designer: Oh , it's  , seems very understandable . industrial designer: and   the only thing that I saw missing from  your your research that we found was this  ability to find the doggone thing when you need it . That's why we're all here at the table , so that if we think of it and our research indicates certain things and  w we it's complementary . industrial designer: I also think that   th f the the feel of it is  , when you hold it , is something that   was expressed more in in in in my  design user interface: industrial designer: and that's logical and normal 'cause those are the parameters that an Industrial Designer's more thinking about , th th the look and the feel , user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: and  , you're user interface: Oh , that's definitely a very important factor , especially to users who are gonna be buying the thing and then using it almost on an daily basis in a lot of cases , I think . project manager: So for anybody need  any help , for time being , on this  subjects , okay , so please come back to me , user interface: Oh project manager: and  Christine , maybe I can  try to help you to get some  the technical  the companies to help you for  make a design  slim , okay , and to add some features , like we are talking about , the speech recognition and all . user interface: Should we maybe make a decision about what features we actually want to include , project manager: Yeah . user interface: 'cause we've thrown a lot of features onto the table , but do we actually want to incorporate all of them , or have we missed anything ? marketing:  . industrial designer: Do you wanna go back and look at the closing slide , maybe that would provide some guidance ? user interface: Sure . industrial designer: it says user interf so I'm supposed to do the components concept , supposed to work on the user interface concept , user interface: I think we should do as many features as  start with all of them right now user interface: I thought industrial designer: and eliminate them later in the process , that's my suggestion . And  I'll send you the the minutes of meet industrial designer: You can object if you want to user interface: No , I I'm just thinking in terms of time , marketing: She's objecting . No , I was just thinking is it really practical to start designing something with features that we're just gonna end up throwing away ?  , it takes a lot of time and effort for everyone to consider different features ,  and s if we spend that time and effort on features that we're not gonna use , maybe it's better to spend it on the f thinking more about features that we actually do want , but industrial designer: I think we should take that as an action item for after the meeting , marketing: Oh th we s we still have user interface: guess industrial designer: 'cause w our meeting time has run out . project manager: Okay , what we'll do is now we'll take for lunch break , okay , then  we can discuss furthermore , okay , with our areas , and  then we will come back again in the in the next meeting . So thanks for coming and  I'll send you minutes of meeting , and  please put your all information in the sharing folder so everybody can share the information 