Then  I've I will also take notes during this meeting and I will send you  a summary then as usual . We will then look at the evaluation criteria of the prototype presented by  our two colleagues that make good work . industrial designer: marketing: project manager: And  then we will see the financial aspects and the cost of the product . And  end with the conclusion of this project and see whether it fits with it fulf if it fulfil the requirement or not . project manager: d let's start with the cost aspect so so I look at the aspect discussed last time , that is to say  to have a standard battery , to have a yellow banana shaped  case with  a rubber material around it industrial designer: project manager: to be  to feel spongy , user interface: Like a banana . project manager: So for the financial aspect it's okay , we can  we can continue with this product  as if , marketing: project manager: and we are now going to see the project evaluation with  our marketing expert . marketing: So I made an evaluation and the the evaluation criteria is made according to the users' requirements and the market trends we talked about  during the previous  meetings . marketing: So we we want to have a product fancy look and feel , technologically innovative , easy to use , fashion , easy to find in a room , and robust , project manager: Yeah . marketing: and  according to what you think about the this project you can   make a one point , two point or seven point . marketing: The okay ?  so  fancy look and feel , what do you think ? project manager: Okay . user interface: Do you vote  Christine ? marketing: eh ? user interface: Do you also vote ? marketing: No , I just want to see something project manager: Maybe we all have to agree on a common user interface: Well , we can very easily . So user interface: marketing: Need to project manager: this is your marketing:  I don't know if you we ha we have to put  one  f If it's better or project manager: One is most . project manager: How much would you give on the fancy aspect , on the fashionable aspect ? marketing: Six  s you can how much what ? project manager: How much would you you don't answer to this  questionnaire ? marketing: Oh yes I  I dunno  , I think six , it's a good  user interface: So it will have five point five average . project manager: Four ? industrial designer: A four also , because , except for the wheel , we don't have so much innovation . I I user interface: D are we including the voice are you glu are we including the voice in the end or not ? Huh ? project manager: No . project manager: Four ? So we have four , four f and five ? marketing: We can put four ? user interface: Yeah . Is it fashion ? project manager: Oh yeah , user interface: project manager: its its f its fruit fruit shape . marketing: Yeah it's fashion , because it's a fruit , user interface: Yeah , we can we can put a seven here . marketing: We have the lightning , or project manager: Yeah , we have the marketing: The lighting . project manager: we don't sesh especially have the lightning user interface: So you'll make the material transparent project manager: but marketing: user interface: so that it  lights up completely , or project manager: So it's yellow . project manager: I think it's very easy to marketing: Seven ? project manager: I would say seven . marketing: Is it is it robust ? project manager: Yeah , it's rubber , made of rubber , industrial designer:  f yeah , it's ru it's rubber . user interface: Yeah the only problem there might be which know , i if it's very sensitive , project manager: Yeah . user interface: I don't know project manager: But it is  it is surrounded by rubber material .  if we say that seven it's  it's the better , project manager: Yeah , the be . industrial designer: user interface: Yeah , the top marketing: and when  s six sit six are good it's a good  p product , I think . user interface: Because I saw  some phones that were banana shaped ,  wireless phones not mobile ones , wireless for the house , marketing: project manager: Yeah . user interface:  quite big also , marketing: user interface: and they were selling something like a hundred Euros , two hundred Euros . project manager: I think the industrial designer: But almo also the complexity between a phone and a remote control is not cannot compare . user interface: it's much more complex , but project manager: So , I think , we can summarise . We we have the cost below  our threshold and so we could sell at twenty five Euros and make i make profit . marketing: project manager: So the cost is in the budget , the evaluation is okay , so I th I think we can now  open champagne and make a huge party . user interface: project manager: I don't know if it's provided by  by the meeting staff . user interface: So what does the management say ? project manager: Sorry ? user interface: What does the management say ? project manager: I think we will have  much bigger project next time and a much bigger salary as well 