marketing: Hello project manager:  like before we  I have to redo the meetings from n th the minutes from the last meeting marketing:  it was discussed in the last meeting  which was opened by the presentation from the interface  designer that  looks would be very important on this new remote user interface: Designer . It should have nine channel buttons , a next button , volume buttons , subtitle buttons , switch to control features , colour contrast , sharpness etcetera .  speech recognition is one of her very f favourite personal  features she would like see d d to be integrated in this  in this new remote . user interface: project manager:  marketing: And she was challenged on that point project manager: that's right . industrial designer: project manager: But  her very f personal favourite really she , she would very much like to see a speech recogniser integrated in this remote . She would like a special case made out of plastic that is very strong , not using any harmful materials , should be recyclable and should be colourful .  technically this thing would also have a resistor and a capacitor , diode transistor , resonator , and if possible a rechargeable battery . And how it would works , you press the button , the chip is morse morse code related relays the  to the generat to the generator amplification and  the circuit board is very inexpensive to build and so she thinks this is a great feature  to to to consider . project manager: She would like  this whole thing should be push buttons with a simple chip  scrolling method is more expensive and not that practical anymore . The marketing expert  who has to finally come up with to to to market this product has been watching the competition , has done some research on the internet and also has used h her personal observations to come up with the fact that such a remote sh should be small , easy to use and it should be eye catching . From her point of view of course one of the most important facts is that we should get to market before our competition does . To do that  maybe one or two features should be developed on which we could dwell on or in other words on which our campaign could be built on . And the decision that we took last time was that  the special feature we would like to see is a speech recogniser , the energy should be battery  should be on a chip , should be trendy design , compact and strong , and should have buttons . industrial designer:  and it's it's blue in colour  bright and  it has yellow buttons and all the different colour buttons marketing: industrial designer:   and also i it it will be easily fit into into the hands and you can access all the buttons easily . marketing: You used to have all the buttons user interface: industrial designer:  yeah and   the material which we are going to use for the case is  plastic and  w which which is s strong   and also  for the  the material is plastic and  for the buttons it is  s soft rubber  and als marketing: Oh that's good , industrial designer: yeah . industrial designer: Yeah because   you'll be touching the buttons more so it is soft when you touch it . industrial designer: And then   for the for the led , for the light emitting diode it is a fluorescent green marketing: Now these features includes the s  signal emitting  signal it's the led or L_E_D_ the infrared . user interface: we have included a button which is fluorescent green colour and this is the menu button which will control the colour , sharpness , brightness marketing: Now this button is an elongated shaped button and this is slightly flexible so if it is turned towards the right it will take to the previous channel , if it is turned towards the right it will take to the next channel . marketing: The next channel in the numeric pattern , or user interface: No , swapping is if if example you're you're watching the second channel and then you go to the tenth channel and if you want to go back to the second channel you can swap , this button . user interface: And at the end , it this remote has inbuilt voice recogniser which c which will recognise the user's voice and then it'll act accordingly . user interface: give her suggestion whether it'll be sellable or it'll be cost effective . industrial designer: marketing: Okay , well  what what I really like a lot about it is that you can reach the whole thing with one thumb , user interface: Yes , yes . marketing: that you can really hold it in one h you don't need two hands industrial designer: marketing: and it's easily reachable even for somebody with a small hand , yeah ? project manager: Yes the buttons are all raised , right ? marketing: The buttons are all raised project manager: Are raised , marketing: and if you hold it in the centre of your hand you can even reach it over here so you don't have to turn it around , turn it upside down , move it up , up and down , project manager: Right . user interface: industrial designer: marketing:  and  I like the idea that the on-off button is in a really prominent place . project manager: Yes , and it sort of sticks up so that you really marketing: Yeah , that's great . project manager: you don't have to g first go like oh yeah here it's on and yeah ,  the  these buttons  around here are the mute user interface: No , these the front buttons which are here , are the mute buttons . project manager: So if you're left-handed or right-handed it doesn't matter . marketing: And this brings the menu up on the screen ? user interface: Pardon me ? This is the menu yes , yes . marketing: This brings the menu up on the screen and the orange ones are user interface: A the the these these two are th to increase or decrease the volumes , marketing: Okay . user interface: industrial designer: marketing: Okay and now I'm supposed to project manager: Well , I have one question marketing: yeah . project manager:  will there be anything written on the buttons , like that people know , or they have to learn that from a piece of paper which button does what ? user interface: Yes , it will have  these buttons will have the numbers and all the rest of the buttons will have symbols . project manager: Will have symbols so that that that the user really knows you know and doesn't have to first learn it user interface: Yes , which can be easily recognised . marketing: Good point because we need the symbols 'cause we're going into an international market we can't have anything that's language dependent . But anyway it would ha i i i it has to have some kind of of symbols , text or something so that people kn industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: Text that we can have on the case itself , project manager: That's right . user interface: And and one more feature is we we have a holder for this remote which is an oyster shape . marketing: Well you know I think we could do something really funny with this too because the snail is known to be slow industrial designer: marketing: and we could have some sort of little comic effect on our marketing about how this is a rapid snail or something like that user interface: project manager: Now what , what are our special features for the marketing ? marketing: So project manager: That's really the voice recognition that's really unusual marketing: I think voice recognition is our big selling point industrial designer:  . project manager: And then , and then the other thing would basically be sh shape or practicality of use . marketing: So I think we have to play with the image , play with the snail image  play with the visual and then the voice recognition . project manager: Okay , now  having said that marketing: I'm supposed to make a little presentation , aren't I ? project manager: No , now this was our evaluation criteria which we  just have done . marketing: Ah , but in my instructions I think it said I was supposed to go to the board and do something . marketing: Can you just fill it in in the yellow boxes ? Or project manager: Oh , okay yeah , okay , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager:  electronics , simple chip on print ? Is that's what we're using ? user interface: Yes . project manager:  but , yes but industrial designer: I think  that is  f for rubbers that is  yeah case material . project manager: That's just for the case material , user interface: Is this for the case ? Yes . project manager: so special colours though , we having that , marketing: Oh okay , the - , ' kay . marketing: 'cause we didn't put the clock in it after all , right ? project manager: No . project manager: button supplement special colour ? user interface: Speci Yes project manager: Special form ? user interface: Yes d we do have special form . user interface: One two three four five six seven eight nine project manager:  ? industrial designer: Maybe it is it just n project manager: Eight , eight point two . marketing: Okay , well  obviously my method for  s m the marketing of this thing is first to ask the big question , will it sell ? And I think we should show this prototype to people from various age and socio-economic groups and see about any fine tuning that maybe little things we haven't thought of . marketing: We can't accept every suggestion of course , but maybe we just need to get a few . marketing: And show the the prototype to consumer research groups , we don't s want somebody to suddenly come to us and tell us that this button is toxic and you know some child will swallow it and then we won't sell any . marketing: And then after that we just have to go with our best intuition and you know we like it , we think it's good , we're gonna get behind it and sell it . Okay , now the things that I was thinking and th my wish list has really been realised in this prototype . I wanted the shape to be biomorphic , I didn't want anything with angles and all square , I wanted it to be comfy and roundy so we we've got that . We wanted the feel to be as soft as possible , we'll have the soft buttons industrial designer: marketing: and the way this is shaped , even though it's gonna be hard plastic , it feels good in your hand so that's nice . And functionality I put last on my list because people aren't going to use it before they buy it . industrial designer: marketing: So paradoxically the other features , in other words , the look , the feel  and the shape , that's what people are gonna get in the store . marketing: They don't have a television in the store , they can't play with it . The size is small  and th these points are in the importance for the , for the marketing , these aren't i in how I feel . I think that it's I think that it's plenty small enough to sell but I think we're sort of right the scale is one to seven . And then functionality  I think you did a really good job on functionality , obviously we could have ad added different functions but then we'd disturb something else so I would say that we got to a five out of seven on on functionality . marketing: So I think that basically we've got a great product and we can get off and running with it . project manager: And  I don't know how we can evaluate that or how we can include that , too . marketing: Well ,  we had what , eight eight euros twenty as our cost ? project manager: Eight , eight twenty , yes . industrial designer: Eight twenty so marketing: And so we've got we've still got four euros to go to spend . industrial designer: We have  four euros , yeah project manager:  maximum we have another four point three euros  four thirty . Well  that's project manager: But  we have no way of presenting that to management as you know as a f finished , as a finished product and saying okay with the voice recogniser that costs so much . marketing: Well as we know in today's technic technological world you can do just about anything at any price , the the the problem is quality . project manager: I'm sorry to interrupt then but I just  recog I just remembered that there was no that that was not  included  that there was no room for any special features , okay ? industrial designer: Included , yeah . You wanna go to this next slide , marketing expert ? marketing: well I isn't this my last slide ? project manager: I dunno .  and we're supposed to talk about those things as a team now , so if you put my last slide back up there . project manager: Why ? Wh why you need that up ? marketing:  ? Well because I can't remember what I put on there . Okay user interface: marketing: you're the designer , of course you wanna give it a one . user interface: industrial designer: marketing:  and then how about how we doing on colour ? project manager: Colour  I marketing: Colour , I gave it a one . marketing: Okay , I gave it a three , two , user interface: I'll give three . marketing: And the next is functionality where I I admit I was a little hard on our team here , but project manager: Well it's also you can't really try it out  the other things you have have more is are more tangible so from that point of view marketing: Yeah .  the functionality's the only place where maybe we have to think about m m maybe , heaven forbid , having another meeting . marketing: But  otherwise I think we're we're ready to go to go with this product . Anybody else have any other comments or any other things that we feel we should evaluate ? project manager:  . Is there more room for creativity or are we absolutely happy ? user interface: We can always improve , yes .  I think they are quite big , so I think I  we can just have small buttons and more buttons in that case . Well then again if we're gonna  do the speech recognition thing we're gon there gonna be some buttons that are gonna have to be added for that for the recording of the the speech . marketing: So that that's where we're gonna have to do maybe we can eliminate one of the mute buttons , instead of having two mute buttons . marketing:  and a couple of other th maybe comp  consolidate some of the usage an and see what we can do with that . project manager: Y  al always bearing in mind that right now we are of course well within the budget industrial designer: user interface: And maybe project manager: and that we still you know we probably can't , with this particular item , we probably can't just  add a whole lot of more things . project manager:   we need  you know we need to leave space money-wise for the voice recogniser . project manager: So th the question really is how do we feel with the project process ?  ,  are we happy with the creativity that has passed here or we're not happy with the new product we created or that was created ?  I think personally I think  I'm pretty happy . marketing: I'm pretty happy with it too , yeah  , project manager:  an industrial designer: Even I'm happy . project manager: and then the next question is are we happy with the leadership of this project ?  marketing: I think you've done a good job , Miss leader . project manager: And I think team work I think was very very good , I think we really industrial designer: project manager: And  I think we are we happy with the means we used ? We used whiteboard , we didn't use digital p well digital pens I guess are these things . marketing: Yeah maybe we could've used the whiteboard a little bit more , yeah , user interface: Whiteboard more , yes , yes .  , it's maybe not in the best position in the room  you know like sometimes it's positioned so that it's much better visible for everybody and I think from that point of view we sort of ignored it a little bit . project manager: I think we we did ,  in more than one respect and  so I think we did very well here . project manager: user interface: industrial designer: project manager: So I I thank you all very much . project manager: I always get it on here , but getting it off is industrial designer: Do we do we have some time left ?  you have user interface: They say it's forty minutes . project manager: Ah yes we have time later marketing: But we we were told we could end the final meeting at any time , whenever we felt we were finished . marketing: It'll take me the rest of the time to get my microphone out from my necklace 