So I will first start with a warm welcome opening stuff , user interface: project manager: then  we will  see what will be  our product and what will be the different step we will have to design it . And  then we will  discuss if we have few ideas and we will  end  by  dispatching the different task you will be you will have to fulfil to complete this process .  , you said twenty-five minutes , but I have something else to do  , so gotta have another meeting  soon , project manager: user interface: so maybe you could hurry up a bit project manager: sorry ? user interface: It's true . I have another meeting so if you could  project manager: You have another meeting soon ? user interface: Yeah . project manager: So the the goal is to have a remote control so to have an advantage over our competitors we have to be original , we have to be trendy and we have to also try to be user-friendly . So the functional design is to identify the main user needs , the technical function the remote control should fulfil . And then we will move to f conceptual design where we'll specify the different component involved , what kind of user interf interface we want and what are the different  trend in user interface and stuff like that . industrial designer: project manager: And then the desired devi design will consist in  specifically implementing and detailing the choice we've  made in the second point . So I will now ask you which is very important for the design of a new remote control for to  each of us to to draw  your favourite animal on the white board . project manager: Do you have any idea of which animal you want to show us ? user interface: Orangutan . industrial designer: user interface: industrial designer: No no n project manager: n n user interface: Can I give you the project manager: You should user interface: no ? But I don't have to say anything . user interface: industrial designer: marketing: user interface: It's an abstract drawing of an orangutan . Usually orangutans have red hair so this is a very important but I don't have red pen , so project manager: Okay . project manager: marketing: This project manager: Of course your animal is recorded so it's not lost . project manager: marketing: user interface: industrial designer: marketing: user interface: project manager: Is this  user interface: Wha what is this strange beast ? marketing: Is it beautiful ? project manager: industrial designer: user interface: Is it a monster ? project manager: marketing: Do you know ? It's a cat . user interface: It's a cat ? industrial designer: marketing: Isn't it ? user interface: I thought these things did not exist . Olivier , do you want to industrial designer: And you I think I'm too short for the cables . marketing: project manager: Okay I go , but next time you'll do something I'm sure . I don't know if it looks like a cow user interface: He looks like a bong . marketing: project manager: I dunno it it looks more like a donkey in fact I would say . That is to say to to have a production cost lower than twelve point five Euros and have a selling price of twice that price t in order to target a profe profit of  fifty  million Euros . user interface: I is there a matter for a new remote control ? project manager: Yeah if it's trendy , original I d fulfil the user needs . user interface: Is it  a single device remote control or is it a multi-device remote control ? project manager: We have to discuss that point . user interface: Ah project manager: On user interface: this is not defined at all ? project manager: yeah you you can suggest points like this . So what's what are your ideas about that ? user interface: project manager: Maybe I can have the your opinion from the marketing side ? user interface: Well  do we sell other stuff ?  if if we bundle the remote control with something  to sell then it could be a single device , otherwise it could be programmable one otherwise who would buy a remote control from us . project manager: Okay , so if it selled  by its own i it it would rather be for multiple device . And  do you have any ideas  of  design ideas or any   technical requirement we we should  fulfil ? industrial designer: I think we shouldn't have too many b for my part . user interface: project manager: And do you have it also to be to be lighted in order to be used in the dark ? Might be a good idea . And do you have any  any  idea of the trend the trend in domain , what it shouldn't it should look like , or things like that ? industrial designer: Something which is not squarey maybe  , not a box . project manager: And also it have , i it may be it may be important for the remote control to be  To , to resist to various shocks that can happen if it fall . industrial designer: And I think we should have a device project manager: Maybe it is original because you can  use it in your  in your bath whereas the others can't . marketing: project manager: Havin having a water-proof remote control so that the people can  use it in their bath . project manager: That could be  user interface: B it seems  so , but  if you don't have an waterproof remote control it means you can just cover it with some plastic and you can sort of f project manager: Yeah but , it is still something  you have to buy and that is  not maybe very user interface: And , and that's one of the that's one of the shock  there are people that have a remote control and they are worried that it's going to break and they put some extra plastic around it . project manager: Yeah , mayb B user interface: That's people they actually do it themselves . project manager: But maybe we can bulk it with  already this plastic thing and  the waterproof  stuff as well . Maybe we can sell  all that together , so so plastic protection and  and a waterproof box as well . project manager: Optional or selled with it ? industrial designer: And I I think we should have something , most of the time I I lose my remote control . industrial designer: We should have s  special bu button on the T_V_ to make the remote control beeping . user interface: That's that's quite cool , but  of course we you don't normally need  any audio  recording stuff on your remote control right ? project manager: Yeah d d  . I think I like the idea , but I'm not sure about the what you , project manager: Yeah . We have to ask user interface: who is giving who's giving who's giving our budget . project manager: So so I will ask the Industrial Designer to find out more about this industrial design so any working any working function we have discussed . project manager: So then I will ask the User Interf Interface Designer to to think about the point we discussed like the number of buttons , the the fact that is lighted or not , things like that , and what would be convenient for the user . project manager: And also  I will ask the Market Expert to  try to find out what are the absolute requirements , what is absolutely needed in a remote control  for the user . And then  I will  just ask you to think about that and  look at your mail because you will receive  some good advice soon . user interface: marketing: Thank you user interface: so we come back in five minutes ? Half an hour . You eat it ? Does it move  ? Okay , but I don't know if it  is still correctly  We'll see 