industrial designer: project manager: So in last meeting we have discussed the conceptual design and we asked you to prepare a prototype for the for the remote control . And  so we have and we we are both agreed on some two versions of the prototypes , because we were no not decided whether we wanted to have an L_C_D_ or not because it's too expensive . industrial designer: You can  choose the direction and if you just push on it it's considered like a enter function . industrial designer: You have on the  on the side here the microphone for the for the speech recognition system here . user interface: industrial designer: And here the the switch that control if you want project manager: Why you why you you put it in the the side ? industrial designer: Well I I I think  it's the project manager: It's not a good place maybe . industrial designer: Yeah but user interface: No i i it's the all around camer  microphone isn't it . marketing: Is it an only a single mic or a microphone array ? industrial designer: Well so it's a microphone array . industrial designer: No user interface: Yeah industrial designer: it's just a single microphone , and you I I think  we we put it here because I think when you when you are browsing your L_C_D_ you will be close to user interface:  . industrial designer: well it's better to to to place it here th than here , for instance . industrial designer: And here is a little switch that control if you want the the speaker  recognition system to  to be on or off . project manager: How much does it cost this one ? industrial designer: Well this this prototype is  made for about  well fi fi fifteen fifteen dollars user interface: For the project manager: Fifteen dollars ? user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: fifteen dollars , project manager: Ah it's above it's above the budget . industrial designer: but  well it's not it's not  yeah , but  it's just a prototype and if we  if we optimises the  the  voila . project manager: How many b battery is there ? industrial designer: How many , excuse me ? project manager: Battery . industrial designer: Well  f battery , we use  about  user interface: Is it n the two A_A_s batteries in it . industrial designer: Yeah and you just project manager: So one one battery ? industrial designer: On  yeah one battery . industrial designer: marketing: user interface: You just n  marketing: Now what is the whole day rating for that ? industrial designer: The excuse me ? marketing: Whole day's rating . user interface: marketing: What type of battery ? industrial designer: Oh yeah it's just a r  simple battery a rechargeable  user interface: Yeah yeah . industrial designer: So and if you want to charge the battery you just put the remote control like that to plug in the the charger user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: Then the next time you pick it , oh project manager: industrial designer: it works . user interface: I forgot to tell you there is only a single button there , b this button industrial designer: Yeah just explain the button  Norman . This button is like the mouse is like a joystick , industrial designer: user interface: you can move in three hundred and sixty degrees of direction so you can make a turn and it the additi functions associated to all the actions you ma you have a click you have a double click all in a single button . industrial designer: user interface: You can move up , down , left , right , or you can do a swing . So even though it's a single button , but it is pretty s flexible because of the three hundred and sixty degree movement . marketing: And the L_C_D_ is this one , on the remote ? user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: project manager: I think it's not a good idea because after maybe one or two months of function is getting destroyed . project manager: industrial designer: Yeah it's project manager: industrial designer: So we have the the second version also with the different  button configuration . marketing: industrial designer: So basically th it's the same  marketing: -huh and also the switch . user interface: marketing: And I think you forgot a point here to have an button to find the charger , user interface: Oh no marketing: because that's a major that's a user interface: th actually th we'll come to that point in our industrial designer: Yeah it's it's it's embed in the  speech recognition system . marketing: Okay industrial designer: So marketing: and if you disable speech recognition system then ? user interface: W w I'll I'll come to that point later on . user interface: Th they either these with the  the the charger any project manager: With the remote control . project manager: Okay so the price of the charger included in the user interface:  it's a standard module so you should get it for a cheap price  . user interface: It's that same charger that you can use for the hand-phone but  again depends on the types . I think we have to investigate more on that , but project manager: The price should be below twelve and a half Euro . Yeah project manager: Well that's so user interface: but as the Marketing Manager says , people is willing to people are willing to pay more for good design . project manager: We have we have just marketing: Yeah people are willing to pay more , user interface: industrial designer: marketing: but the company is not willing to invest more at the moment . project manager: And the price of production user interface: industrial designer: Alright please  go on Norman with the special features . marketing: Or  user interface: Yeah we'll we'll come up to that , the the the thing that makes this the controller cheap is that it is modular so you want more function you pay more . If you want less function i i if you want a reasonable price you pay for the functions that you add on to the system , marketing: user interface: so is  modular . user interface: Yeah yeah , project manager: user interface: for example the L_C_D_ , you can take it you can put it put it back in , or you can use the other one , marketing: Something like customised . industrial designer: user interface: You want a microphone to put in the speech recogniser you don't wan you pay less for the system you see . industrial designer: You also have the the the two other modules for the parental control project manager: But user interface:  yeah yeah you should present that . industrial designer: that that you ca you can add up to the to your remote control marketing: And this is other one ? user interface: industrial designer: i i if you  if you want to to have more more power on what you do , and  which channel you want to choose and so on . industrial designer: H here is just the the the module for the kids and th if the parents want to watch T_V_ , up they come up with their modules , marketing:     . industrial designer: they just plug in it user interface: Yeah industrial designer: and they can have all the control they want here . industrial designer: We also have this module for  old people with big buttons , clearly labelled , user interface:  . Simplicity meaning that we have few buttons , powerful is that all the controls with the one you saw we saw earlier in the meetings with lots of buttons n but here you only have few buttons but you retain the  the same powerful functionalities . So that's the best idea , the cond that that's our  an innovation   i in this  design here . The first one is the speech recogniser , again it's detachable or add-on . And then we also have security feature for example this here oop industrial designer: user interface: it's very robust , it doesn't break and the material , what's the material again ? industrial designer: The titanium project manager: Titanium . industrial designer: and so it's very  user interface: Again  and the battery life is  is an is an endurable one , again because this is A_A_ batteries you can choose the types of battery you want . user interface: Lithium-ion may be a good one , but you can replace it with cheaper one , again you pay for what you get , and then  y the other p points are robust and misplacement reminder . So when you finish watching your T_V_ and you the you t you turn off the T_V_ ,  and then there's this message coming out that  please put that back to the charger , so so that's the or is it marketing: Okay . Yeah and  And it also use a programmable channel and vocabulary , so we didn't define the vocabulary so it's up to the user to define marketing:     . user interface: so sorry ? project manager: industrial designer: marketing: user interface: And then  because of the chil because children are using the device so we have also a a of T_V_ programmes by genre , and this can be used by the adult or by the children . So it's pretty powerful , and that's that's why the num buttons are reduced , because of this feature . project manager: What what's user interface: Maybe we can improve more on the design but project manager: Maybe yeah . industrial designer: project manager: What's the price to p to produce ? user interface:  this is the industrial designer: Well so the price to produce For  the simplest one , say we start from four dollars to produce such a device . project manager: With with with the charge ? industrial designer:  it's about it The without without the charger marketing: With the charger ? project manager: Okay . user interface: Yeah industrial designer: it's about  well two dollars to produce  the microphone and speech recognition systems . user interface: industrial designer: Two dollars for the  for the add-on modules , and finally three dollars for the charger . So if you  sum up  everything wi with the L_C_D_ , which costs two dollar , you have two plus four plus four plus two plus two . industrial designer: so the total cost if you if you want all the fuct functionalities will be about  fifteen dollars . project manager: No it's industrial designer: But it's just if you want all functionalities . user interface: marketing: Yeah it's a nice input project manager: We marketing: but we have an other inputs from the l public demands . project manager: marketing: I think we will just have a rough look and then we can make our statements , and we can finalise the product based on this discu user interface: Yeah . user interface: marketing: So the marketing made an evaluation criteria and these were some of the findings , and  in the market the people are not really interested with L_C_D_ , without L_C_D_ , with speech recognition interface , or without speech recognition interface , but most of the people what they are interested is first thing is , they want to have an fancy look and feel , it should be very fancy with colourful and  very handy to hold . user interface: marketing: Of course in that we could put L_C_D_ or recognition to be more technologically innovative . industrial designer: Well I think that the technical in innovation is is in the product itself since we haven't yet a remote who are allowing to to choose interactively with the T_V_ screen   with just four buttons . marketing: Okay and if we go to the next slide , here you can find these are the latest fashion updates , and so this in Paris and Milan they have detected this trends that the this year it's going to be an year of fruit and vegetable , so people are really interested to see if they have an remote in the shape of the fruit or a vegetable , or whatever they like . marketing: And the second thing is , and if the material , they really do not want it to be very hard , as in the case of very pl plastic or titanium , it should be somewhat spongy . user interface: But the the problem is that  is it robust to mishandling ? industrial designer: Okay . user interface: We have you should find a material that is robust at the same time spongy . user interface: marketing: So these are the f  three criteria on which we are going to build our remote . marketing: say that we have a seven point scale , from one to seven , user interface: industrial designer: marketing: So now you have with L_C_D_ and without L_C_D_ , user interface:  . marketing: so on this scale , if it is true , if it is if it has a fancy look you could just tell me one , or if it is false , it doesn't it looks  it doesn't look much fancy , then you could just tell me seven . So user interface: So marketing: We can make our study on this and user interface: so is the e evaluation depending on us or other users ? marketing: No no we have you have designed two products now , project manager: Yeah . user interface: But who will give the scoring  we ourself or or a third party ? project manager: You . marketing: According to you , no according to you designers , how will feel does it  with L_C_D_ and without L_C_D_ ? user interface:  . marketing: D is it very fancy or doesn't look much fancy ? industrial designer: Well it doesn't look much fancy I'll I'll say three or four . marketing: And you both agree for that ? project manager: And you ? user interface: I think we can improve on the design . It's it it project manager: user interface:  we have been focused all all this time on the on the technical aspect , functional aspect , but also the simplicity . marketing: So I take three on with L_C_D_ ? industrial designer: Yeah a three . marketing: So without L_C_D_ how would you rate it ? user interface: Yeah . I think it's it's  more easy to make f fancy things when it's not complicated marketing: Four . industrial designer: so removing the L_C_D_  gives us a li more liberty to to have a fancy look . industrial designer: Well it's it's the same for both so I will give a five , six . marketing: Five with L_C_D_ and user interface: industrial designer: Well five also  Norman please . user interface: Yeah project manager:  user interface: from the innovation aspect I feel that  what is most innovative of our prototype compared to the existing prototypes that we saw l in the last meeting is that  the retrieval of T_V_ programmes by content , because  that is really innovative , and for now and another innovation we have is simplicity and simplicity , few buttons , we've  A lot of functionalities . user interface: So that is  that is  for both th marketing: So without L_C_D_ ? user interface: Our gi I think that the our our product is  has the best in all well this is a biased judgement industrial designer: user interface: because we designed them . marketing: No no according to design aspect we want to know how would you feel the innovativeness ? user interface: Yeah . marketing: And without L_C_D_ ? industrial designer:  for both it's the the same innovations . So I there is high innovativeness included if you make it with L_C_D_ y industrial designer: Yeah . user interface:    there w there was a there was a issue here is that what are what is the display on the L_C_D_ ? marketing: So we can't go project manager: industrial designer: Talk about user interface: We haven't really  determined what are actually actually project manager: marketing:  that what you are sayin that's what the design user interface: it's good to have a L_C_D_ but what are we gonna display on a L_C_D_ ? industrial designer: marketing: No it's like this , project manager: marketing:  on the L_C_D_ , according to what I understand from your model is , you have a joystick here , and you have L_C_D_ , you just press your joystick , you get here a programme . Yeah but industrial designer: Yeah project manager: But industrial designer: but you have the same programme on the T_V_ screen . marketing: No on the T_V_ you don't it doesn't display on the T_V_ now . industrial designer: If you have the L_C_D_ , but if n marketing: L_C_D_ ? Then  there is no meaning in having it on the T_V_ . marketing: Or then again you have a channels , volume and all the stuff and what a user interface: But you cannot display all on a L_C_D_ . marketing:  that depends upon your design , so user interface: Anyway for for the users who who who opt for L_C_D_ we'll give them the give them the L_C_D_ , marketing:  user interface: we give what the customer  wants , right . user interface: marketing: So without L_C_D_ you want to put it fi the same level of innovativeness ? And which do you recommend e easy to use , with L_C_D_ or without L_C_D_ ? user interface: industrial designer: Well I think both are really easy to use because there are few button buttons , user interface: Yeah industrial designer: and  well t p the menu are clear , well-organised , so user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: Well with little knowing of the technology you can you can easily use the product user interface: industrial designer: so I will give a six for the easy to use . user interface: Yeah I think project manager: No it's just if I I see the the f the rate I think it's better to do it without L_C_D_ . project manager: Because that's with L_C_D_ just will increase the price , marketing: Yeah . project manager: and I thi i they have the same rate so without L_C_D_ it will be user interface: Yeah . marketing: Or we can just go back to the previous slide  where we ha we have a few updates . S industrial designer: And  if the the well if we have less technology we have more liberty to  for the shape and  things like that so marketing: Yeah that's right . For kids they want simply the s similarit for the old people they want simplicity , marketing: Yeah yeah that's right .  we can ha have build a more complex design if if they want it , but but  what I'm trying to say here is that the  we have different sets of buttons for different kinds of people . marketing: So without L_C_D_ I just take it five ? project manager: user interface: W  marketing: Or you want it to be six ? user interface: I think it's the same . industrial designer: Yes as you say , with better  project manager: Without L_C_D_ . marketing: S s oh I think it's better to have this without L_C_D_ . marketing: As our Programme Manager s Pro Project Manager says that without L_C_D_ it is going to reduce the cost also , user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: Yes and to give us more liberty to have a fancy look so user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: so let's go back to our laboratory and user interface: To improve on the design . project manager: what about the integration of speech recognition ? user interface: Huh ? The speech recogniser is a add-on module . industrial designer: It's optional yeah , since well according to this study  people more likes more to have a spongy  remote control than project manager: I think it will be I think i user interface: marketing: Yeah . project manager: I think it will be better if we have all these modules in the same remote control , because maybe parents will lose these  marketing: Yeah , but  if you have an add-ons , the kids may just  hide the parental module project manager: Yeah . project manager: Or maybe parents they can for forget where they put it or , industrial designer: project manager: so mayb better if you have all this in the same marketing: In the same set , yeah , project manager: marketing: and and individual buttons to make them work . user interface: The problem is if i we are bla if a customer wants a certain component , and doesn't want the parental control because it's a couple who do not have children when you sell the product in the market you could meet any kind of people , and not all people will need all the functionalities we propose to them . I don't know , project manager: So you mean that even if these modules will be will be functional  will be optional . user interface: what do you think  ? Yes exa what do you think , I don't know . project manager:  marketing:  how to how to how to make a marketing survey that  how many married couple or how many couples have a T_V_ user interface: Yeah . But the the question is n does those modularity increase the production cost or decrease the production cost ? project manager: I think it inc increase . industrial designer: Oh no , project manager: industrial designer: because if you if you add  something well yeah maybe because it's three different pieces  to to to build but project manager:  . industrial designer: Yeah yeah yeah user interface: industrial designer: it's I think it's cheaper if you if you already built the all the functionalities  on the same module , but  user interface:  . marketing: On the same P_C_B_ user interface: Well well the other aspect is that if in the when they have the ar existing product you you gonna maintain the the you're gonna keep the same customer , industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: Yeah i i so if don't don't buy now they can buy i in the future . So in in that way you're actually keeping the cus the same customer , attracting them to come back in again and again . industrial designer: user interface: We're not trying to follow the Microsoft and we don't want to the m project manager: marketing: Updates and we sell it . industrial designer: user interface: Yeah well if the buyers can be up the th would be can be upgraded , it would be a good thing right ? project manager: industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: And  what's the idea about  the shape of the remote controls ? industrial designer: Well so marketing:  can they be made into a fruit and vegetable types ? industrial designer: Yeah yeah marketing: Do you require different types of P_C_B_s and industrial designer: I think we are yeah but we are also the  well the components will have to change because  we have to deal with the shape and  but I don't think it will  increase the cost too much so user interface:  . marketing: Or  it could be like this the P_C_B_ would be the same for all , but only the exterior  shape is different o for all . industrial designer:  well but it's a bit complicated to if if if you need machines to different machines to  ah well user interface: Yeah . For example the i the mobile phones nowaday , they sell different kinds of skin marketing: Yeah , yeah that's right . industrial designer: and then  add on skins and with with this  tex spongy texture  things like that . project manager: So industrial designer: So we finished the prototype  presentation if you have  something else to say . user interface: marketing: I think the Project Manager would be interested to look about the financial issues in making these models . We have to give answers so marketing: user interface: I suppose that you this criteria , is it ? project manager: Project evaluation . This room is a bit small , but industrial designer: project manager: user interface: but I think it's okay for us to work with . marketing: I feel it's fine , we know we don't need  I think it's okay . marketing:   what type of product would you think could we make this more interesting ? user interface:  we I I know something , we need more cakes , more biscuits on the table while we have meetings . industrial designer: Yeah and also more well  more seriously I think it's it's a good idea to have  clear clear points whenever we do a meeting marketing: user interface:  . industrial designer:  prior to the meeting to have  well a list with the points who will be discussed or things like that , but I think it's alright . marketing: And the evaluation was project manager: Without without L_C_D_ , without speech recognition , it will be simple . marketing: So project manager: Yeah free free coffee user interface: Alright then , we finished ? industrial designer: Okay . project manager: Yeah thank you for your work and marketing: Yeah thank you , thank you very much 