user interface: project manager: So we should have our final meeting about the detail designed of detail design of the product of the remote control .   just going to go quickly through the minutes of the last last  meeting then we have a p presentation of prototype of you two , sounds interesting . Then we'll have to go through finance evaluation of the of the cost of the thing and  hopefully  we should fit the target o tw of twelve point five   Euro . No L_C_D_ , no speech recognition technology , okay , we went through a b to a banana look and feel for the remote control . And also the use of a basis station for battery ch charging and  also to  call the to call the mot mote remote control when it is lost . user interface: Yeah so  following our decision to  make a yellow well to make a banana project manager: Yeah can you show it to the the camera maybe . user interface: remote okay so we actually have a industrial designer: You can pull it out first , maybe . user interface: We've well first first of all we made a an attractive base station  with a banana leaf  look and feel  and  project manager: user interface: bana sit the banana sits in there k you know nicely weighted so that it's not gonna tip over and  this is the remote itself , it's kind of it's it's ergonomic , it fits in the hand  rather well . We've got the two   scroll wheels here which you know one on the the left for the  volume and the one on the right for for the channel and  underneath we have the  the turbo button which is in like a nice  trigger position for you know for pressing quite naturally . project manager: What's the use  of the t turbo button already ? user interface: This is when you when you  are scrolling the  through the channels you can tell it to to skip th past channels that you quickly rather th project manager: Ah yeah yeah an then you stop when you stop it stops . If you take the banana as such and  you press the turbo button , so it switch ons the switch ons the T_V_ . user interface: So rather than having  an extra button for  for the on off switch you just use the turbo button . user interface: and you can use the the channel selector scroll wheel as  project manager: To navigate it through th through teletext . marketing: But if you want to go to page seven hundred ? industrial designer: That's right , that's right . marketing: How man user interface: Well then you can you you have like a little  number selection thing , you press the the the teletext button  to move between  the fields and then you can just scroll the number back and forth so you have s you go you scroll to seven and then zero zero and then you can  marketing: I don't understand it . Can you repeat it ? user interface: Well you can you can press press the teletext button industrial designer: user interface: and then you then you can you can f industrial designer: So then then both the scroll buttons they are for teletext browsing . industrial designer: yeah , user interface:   industrial designer: once you press the teletext button then the scroll buttons they are more for teletext , they are no more for channel or vol volume . user interface: in the  in the base station we have the the button at the front for  for calling the  the banana . project manager: And the the leaves plays the roles of of antennas ? user interface: Actually they do . user interface: That's that's yeah that's  that's form and function in the one in the one  object . So it always means , whatever the rays goes by they they get reflected and then you are having a better coverage . marketing: user interface: But yeah that's  that's just like that's an attractive  base station . industrial designer: And for the power source we are having solar cells and rechargeable batteries and this and  the basis station is going to have the input from the  power line for for charging the batteries . marketing: Ok industrial designer: And we have put these different colours so that people don't mistake them mistake it as a banana . user interface: industrial designer: Otherwise it's you know a child comes and so marketing: Okay . user interface: I think a child would try to eat it anyway , so maybe we should industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: So for the power source , apparently you still you you want to use both solar cells and batteries . So user interface: I don't really know if the solar cells are actually necessary any more if you have a recharging base station . project manager: Yeah , where are going to where are you are you going to place them ? industrial designer: - user interface: If I was gonna place them I'd put them on the on the top here since that's like  the black bit project manager: You have enough surface ? You user interface: but yeah I don't I really don't think it's necessary to have the solar cells anymore . project manager: What will be the autonomy ? Roughly ? user interface: The what sorry ? project manager: The autonomy . user interface: What do you mean ? project manager:   how long does i how how how long can it be held off a station ? marketing: How long the how long the bit the batteries long . project manager: Yeah , so it's user interface: Yeah but y people don't like to put it back in the base station all the time people leave wanna leave it on the couch so industrial designer: So when when you are making it on project manager: It's used only when you industrial designer:  . Pricing is was a factor so that's why we have gone for a regular chip only not the advanced chip . Looks a bit industrial designer: You want to have more functional buttons ? marketing: Looks a bit puzzled  I dunno how to say that . marketing: You the the b the buttons change h h their function depending if y it's teletext or not industrial designer: Not not many , we we want to keep it simple . So that this button fo is for teletext which is usually also the case , that usually there is a teletext button and once you press that , the channel buttons , they baco become the scrolling buttons . marketing: And the volume button will will become industrial designer: It's up to you , means . project manager: Well in fact b both will be could be useful , navigating through teletext . industrial designer: Now that Means let's say this this can move the the larger digits and this can move the smaller digits . marketing: And what about people who want to use digits ? Butto real buttons ? project manager: Wow . So there was there was a constraint that the surface area which we have on this banana on one side because of the shape . marketing: industrial designer: So we are targeting a segment which is which is just very trendy kind of thing , they they don't care about the buttons any more . Because have you thought about configuration and all this kind of  stuff ? user interface: It's all automatic . project manager: So your slides are ready ? marketing: S project manager:  you're four I think . And each criteria is will be evaluated it's  logical criteria so we must users must say i if it's true or is or if it's false in a in a scale ranging from zero to seven . project manager: So to have in order to have enough granularity marketing: Sorry ? project manager: it's in order to have enough granularity in the evaluation . I think I sh I I could write the criteria in the on the whiteboard ? industrial designer: marketing: Okay let's let's evaluate if it's fancy or industrial designer: Yeah , it's fancy , according to me . industrial designer: So you can add seven plus six plus seven plus user interface: project manager: No , wait . user interface: Five , maybe maybe maybe six it's it's I guess it's project manager: Okay , six point five . user interface: I'd give it a six like I'd I think it's probably more handy than my current remote , 'cause of the scroll wheels marketing: Six . user interface: but maybe loses the point for not having you know the extra buttons when you reall if you do need them for some reason but you know you can always use your other remote . marketing: I would say project manager: industrial designer: user interface: Well it depends when you say functional , do you mean it does what we want it to do , or d does what it does , you know , can it make you coffee ? marketing: Everything ar project manager:  for a remote control , does he have all the user interface: You know . marketing: Actually I don't know what are the r the real specification of a of a universal remote contro user interface: Well it's not a universal remote . industrial designer: We marketing: Ah it's not an univer but it's for all kind of T_V_s ? project manager: Yeah . user interface: Well all T_V_s but only T_ only T_V_s I guess . user interface: Obviously there are some outliers so marketing: So four ? project manager: Okay cool ? Cool device . user interface: Which industrial designer: For a T_V_ the most important feature which I felt was the locator which is a cool feature . We don't have L_C_D_ for it but that we decided we don't want to have . marketing: Sorry , I have them user interface: Alright , now here's the sixty million Dollar question , project manager: user interface: well , twenty five twenty five Euro question . user interface: What do you what do you guys reckon ? marketing: Of cour Of course the most difficult question for the end . If i i it depends , if you live in in Switzerland or you live in project manager: Yeah , so the target price is for all Europe , or only for rich countries ? It's more targeting U_K_ or marketing: I don't know . Wha the initial specifications were for the whole all Europe or user interface:  project manager: So this is selling costs , not production costs . project manager: Aw , should be nice in your industrial designer: Why ? user interface: I don't want a banana on my living room table , a banana remote . industrial designer: Anyb anybody who comes here anybody who comes to your home he'll at least ask once what is this . user interface: Well , you know , it's it's handy , it's ergonomic , but it's a banana . project manager: Well , don't forget well , don't for don't forget who we're targeting also who are f f who are wh industrial designer: Youngsters . project manager: yeah , youngst youngst user interface: Yeah but it says I , I would buy this , so . I would buy industrial designer: project manager: Okay you're you're crazy teenager and you like fun things . user interface: S s industrial designer: Or might be it does some other kind of thing but user interface: Still I I'd say two . I don't think I at any stage in my life I would want a banana remote control , really . project manager: Okay so you s you give user interface: I can say , maybe there is a market for it , I dunno . project manager: So what's the new question ? industrial designer: And you have saved it ? marketing: So yeah upload the industrial designer: You'll have to reload . If you really need an universal remote control or if you would change your remote control for a n for a new one . user interface: If I had t if I had to spend twenty five Euro , if that was like my limit , maybe I would buy it . industrial designer: They're not going to be as And they they might not be a as easy as this marketing: user interface: And it yeah this is gonna f you know handy to use . industrial designer: S user interface: Although it still has it still has the word of course at the beginning industrial designer: I go slightly up . project manager: W we have six , five user interface: I'd give it I'd give it a project manager: Three user interface: I give it a four now . industrial designer: marketing: Six ? Six ? project manager: So we are six , five , four industrial designer: Six , five , four . project manager: So and last question , will I change my rem change my remote control from Mando banana . If it was change my remote control of my D_V_D_ player for a Mando banana then I would be more inclined to project manager: It's for the T_V_ . user interface: but  'cause it's really bad but  marketing: user interface: I'd say a three . marketing: Who is the outlier ? user interface: marketing: Wh wh you said five ? project manager: No no you say five , he is the outlier . marketing: I don't know if it's a user interface: It's not very promising but you know we're not young trendsetters . project manager: Well maybe we should we should  have a look globally glob marketing: Because the the last two questions is much more important than the rest actually . user interface: Is there some some formula you're using that says you have to sum them up ? marketing:  no I didn't anything . We can had  have a out of these numbers , which which is that well we should go for it . project manager: Problem with connectors ? marketing: Do you want me to sum user interface: No . marketing: o I think it's not user interface: I think it it kind of you just lose information if you sum it , so . We are going to go through so this is the number the  number of components we need for this thing . project manager: Okay so let's let's go let's go let go through all the lines . user interface: Well maybe dynamo is like you have to actually project manager: Ah you have to ah okay I see so kinetic is really  shaking the banana . So we are user interface: Well actually that that no that sample speaker is not we we're not using that , we're just using the the very beep simple beep , project manager: The beep . project manager: So don't we need a industrial designer: And we have sev project manager: Oh there is no listing for r radio frequency thing . project manager: So industrial designer: So we we'll put some extras , if there is something . user interface: no , it's it's double curved , it's got a c , it's  industrial designer: Oh it's got all the directions project manager: No . user interface: Well d yeah it's monotonic but marketing: industrial designer: It's got a direction . user interface: it's got but if you hold it if you hold it that way that's two curved , one on this side , one on that side , but they're opposite sides . user interface: This is actually  this probably marketing: Actually what's the differen user interface: this probably actually costs more than three project manager: Yeah so let's put one here in the then instead of single user interface: if you industrial designer: Okay . user interface: Well no didn't we say we wanted to do a rubber project manager: No , it's too no . Well we we'll come back we'll come back and see if we can fit it in . marketing: Actually whe whe when you wrote regular chip you should put two , because there is another chip here . project manager: It's just industrial designer: And the receiver accepts it and that's it . user interface: It's a recharger thing and  project manager: Okay w we didn't think a thought about  integrated scroll wheel push buttons . user interface: Well I actually did  think about it myself but I thought you know because you could potentially you know you could be pushing it down as you scroll it for a instead of a turbo button project manager: Yeah , user interface: but you know the turbo button does add that extra class . So  if we're if we're over budget then maybe we could we could rethink that . So no L_C_D_ , so for we have no button supplements , right ? industrial designer: Yep . project manager:  well in fact could we could not we consider this button as a button supplement because oh no , these are these are for colours , co and special forms , special colours and special materials . No we're not project manager: So user interface: we don't need anything special for the buttons . So first thing which we should take care of is , user interface: Make it plastic instead of rubber . project manager: So mayb in fact n we have to put two here marketing: project manager: because it cost nothing . project manager: industrial designer: So might be ninety centimes for the the remaining things which the cord and everything which'll go project manager: Exactly exactly so we have margin for that stuff . user interface: So what do we do with the extra profits ? project manager:  we'll invest in R_ and D_ . user interface: No it's people in in in Milan and  in Paris that are gonna buy it . user interface: project manager: This is what we which you can  industrial designer: S Detachable battery . project manager: Exac Well in fact I I did not know I didn't know really what to say here . marketing: user interface: industrial designer: project manager: If  if you have any ideas of what we can we can say . So I don't I don't I don't understand what what they mean by satisfaction  and for and for example . user interface: project manager: Should it be more like  like a status of of the these meetings in fact . project manager: Yeah well in fact  we we use a little bit the white board and the digital pen , not that much . user interface: And  but I think one thing we m missed out of this whole process was a  like a focus group with the actual people we're targeting . industrial designer: user interface: We needed some of these kind of young trendsetters to come in and play with the banana and you know see if they project manager: Yeah . project manager: So maybe you should we should do a kinda evaluation in the streets like asking to young peoples well , do you like to have a banana as a remote control . Because it it would also be interesting to  you to know find out if we have a market in really young children as well , to see you know how to how to market this thing . user interface: 'Cause you know if well  maybe you don't wanna give all your kids their own remote because they'll be changing the channel all the time but you know maybe in some households where there is you know a T_V_ for each kid , then you know , banana remote control could be fun for them as well . So but I think that's something we need to to work on next time is really finding out more about the target market . Any any new ideas we could  we could investigate next time ? Dunno , oranges ? industrial designer: Yeah . Because I think it's just the optimal , what we have done for the cost which we are looking forward to . user interface: Well just the the the circuit board that we're using inside , marketing:  all we have is two push buttons and two scrollers , do we really need an integrated circuit to project manager:  . marketing: For you said if it good for D_V_D_ then I would user interface: And also fo you know for mood lighting and and stuff , that would be rather cool . I think that's actually something that should be in version two , is the ability to you know to control things other than the T_V_ industrial designer: Integrate . Maybe maybe we can hassle the the production department to to make a a real prototype that we can use at home to to evaluate 