user interface: project manager: Okay ? So we are here for the functional design meeting  so first I will show the agenda so we will  I will take notes during this meeting so I will try to summarise it and put that summary in the shared folder if you want to look at it afterwards user interface: project manager: so then  each of you will  lead a presentation on the task that has been required last time so user requirement specification , technical function design and working design . Then we will take  the decision on on the remote control  needed functions and then I will assign you the task for the next part of the meeting . So  who want to start the the presentation of what they did ? industrial designer: F do you want to start ? user interface: Make a start yeah . project manager: You have  PowerPoint ? user interface: Should be in my in their folder no ? project manager: Ah yeah maybe there . industrial designer: With the the whiteboard ? project manager: If you remember yeah user interface: Yeah . So most people want to have a a remote for their hi-fi and T_V_ and stuff like that . user interface: And but other people want th also remotes for controlling  and toys like robotic pets and little robots and stuff industrial designer: user interface: Yeah , so there's a project I think called X_ house or something like that that does that ,  you can integrate your remote with  computers stuff .  and th the buttons part would be  a set of buttons for choosing devices , a set of buttons for special navigation in space , industrial designer: user interface: a set of buttons for linear access of medium and a set of buttons for random access . user interface: Yeah ? industrial designer: What do you mean by linear access then ? user interface: Like a video tape goes forward , backwards ,  fast and stuff yeah . project manager: and there's a fourth one no ? user interface:  ? project manager: So the better now for special navigation ? user interface: Yeah . For special navigation for example you might have a T_V_ in the menu and you going to change yeah ? project manager: Okay . user interface: So if there are common parameters maybe we should put special buttons for that  project manager: Okay . user interface: or maybe we could have everything  generic but  there are a lot of  remotes on the market right now and basically this is most of the almost everybody has this stuff . We could assign any button a command to any button , if we have enough processing power , project manager: Okay . Okay so in our usability lab we observed the remote control use among one hundred subjects project manager:  . marketing: okay ? And here I have the results so you can see that  seventy five per cent of users find most remote controls ugly so we have to find something to make them more more nice , more kind . Eighty hundred per cent of users would spend more money when the remote control would look project manager: user interface: marketing: oh to it's not good . project manager: We can just keep doing that ? marketing: So it's not in theory but I I can I can say yeah . marketing:  and fifty per cents of users say they only use  ten per cents of but of the buttons in the in the remote control . marketing: So all the buttons we we have to put are have to to have  a use a real use project manager: Okay . marketing: and not only or project manager: Okay , so fewer buttons maybe would be good ? marketing: Yeah . user interface: But what kind of remote controls did you look at ? marketing: Sorry ? user interface: What kind of task was it ? It was a T_V_ ? marketing: Yeah . Yeah but in fact we it it seems that we are going to make a T_V_ remote control according to new requirements I received from the management user interface: Huh . marketing: So there are other frustrations expressed by users , so they said  they lost  often the remote control in in the room so they want to have a way to to project manager: Yeah . marketing:  and  lot of the time they it takes too much time to learn how to use a new remote control . marketing: And  remote controls are bad for project manager: What is her other side ? marketing: R_S_I_  user interface: Other side yeah , yo wa your wrist marketing: I dunno . industrial designer: marketing: Okay  before that I I have some some some thing  to say before  project manager: Yeah . marketing: So it's better to put    something very easy to set and  and project manager: Yeah . marketing: and  we asked this question if they prefer an L_C_D_ screen or on their remultific function remotes control project manager: Yeah . So you know that  project manager: marketing: for the younger it's very important project manager: To have L_C_D_ and voice . And  and the others is not so important but  we know that   people between fifteen and twenty five are people who watch a lot T_V_ and  who who wh can use a lot this  . project manager: Moreover th maybe those  like those teenager customer could advice their parents to buy this equipment and so we can user interface:  . So as we say before , I think   a remote control lightening in the dark it's it's a good thing . marketing: e easy to use  a way to find it easily in the room and   resistant to to shock and to to industrial designer: project manager: Okay these are the user requi marketing: I dunno if you see something else important or industrial designer: project manager: industrial designer: I'm just thinking of some thing . industrial designer:  We want to have a no , I don't know if this is a good idea . project manager: Cos it would be costly  and and also it it would take more time to develop to have a a general generic remote control . Because I received that email from management board and they seems to tell that that if we want to be on the market as early as possible we should  focus on T_V_ more where it seems that the market is more important . What's your opinion ? user interface: I have  I've no idea  I should know a bit more about how fast we can  design it . marketing: user interface: I don't think project manager: industrial designer: marketing: user interface:  yeah . industrial designer: But basically yeah maybe I can continue with my presentation , it would be al you you project manager: Okay . project manager: Maybe you can go to the whiteboard if you have some drawings to do industrial designer: If fact project manager: I don't know . project manager: industrial designer: Okay so I'm just going to describe in fact for for a remote control this is quite easy . We just have project manager: user interface: industrial designer: sorry , I'm going project manager: Okay . Let's say that  something like that , which could be  a L_C_D_ let's say or  an array of push button , something like that . So I say U_C_ and I feed that to  L_E_D_ which is  infrared  which is a an infrared  component . industrial designer: Y it's a it's this just a chip which does all the  numerical project manager: Computation . We just need to take to define what we want to do when the user interface  wants something and after that we just do the coding to s and send that to to to the not the to the television .  we just have to define the processing power that we need  especially if we want to do some  speech recognition , in that case that mean that we are going to use more for simple user interface: This will think this will take more time to develop also . project manager: To have a you s you speak about with voi voice control ? industrial designer: No no no no , project manager: Standard button one . project manager: So do you have any idea of how long it would take to have voice recognition now ? user interface: Ten years . project manager: user interface: industrial designer: I would say  about eight months to have the first results . project manager: Even if we have a L_C_D_ display ? industrial designer: Yeah even . So who think it would be good to go for  like speech recognition ? user interface: But we don't have time to market . industrial designer: during the kickoff meeting you say that we we shouldn't we shouldn't go up to twelve point five Euro per unit marketing: project manager: Euros . user interface: How muc how much do you get how much do you if you buy one million units h no , one hundred thousand units . How much will it cost for one hundred thousand ? industrial designer: Usually this is less tha at two dollars per chip . project manager: Because we are user interface: So you have any idea for a powerful one that has  good enough for do speech recognition . Maybe we can  we can look at the new requirement I receive from the management board and discus discuss all function we want to have . industrial designer:  I just had a question  do you want to continue with your presenta ? marketing: project manager: Yeah I I will continue . industrial designer:  you say that I don't remember by heart but thirty per cent marketing:  ? industrial designer: of the tested people say that's it's quite difficult to to to use the remote control . industrial designer: Do they say that this is difficult but for the same reason or do they have other reason ? To to marketing: Oh . industrial designer: maybe to keep in mind maybe to access to that menu you should do something like that . marketing: Would j  yeah w I I think they they say that it's  difficult to learn how to use it but i when you know how to use it , it's it's okay . industrial designer: But yeah maybe and what about if we design a remote control which can be configure as you want ? You say that I want , I have six button user interface: Mh A a lot of people are  if you have the L_C_D_ screen if you can do it completely the way you want because the buttons also look the way you want them industrial designer: Yeah . I think the young people are th  are  marketing: user interface: Christine here said  you have a industrial designer: Yeah . Maybe it would be more complex to configure it to be simple than creating a simple product . user interface: And there are another thing is that if we make something that's simple and easy to use that's bas to use immediately that means that it will be exactly the same as everything else . user interface: Otherwise , if it's different then of course everybody has somebody has to learn to use it first . project manager: But also we we see that that most people find it find remote controls too complex because they have too many buttons and they mainly use only channels and volume buttons . project manager: So we may just  make a very easy to use remote control with mainly those buttons user interface: Yeah . project manager: and maybe also  some lightning stuff too because most people find also hard to to find the remote control . project manager: These these are these two points are the main frustrations so maybe if we design something very simple and easy to  find when lost it will  add  a serious competitive advantage without making something too complex and too long to develop . So we don't have to so this this  is  is  in the this is in the same direction as we were speaking so we don't have to make a very complex remote controls to access teletext and stuff like that user interface: But teletext is just one button . project manager: Yeah but then you have to you have to define the buttons to surf amongst pages and stuff . So well user interface: So will you add with the channel keys , right ? project manager: Yeah . So anyway we don't have to include this feature because it's it's not used any more by users , user interface: So . If if if we want to make it very simple we have to reduce number of buttons compared to th to our competitors . Also  so as as I told before  it would be better if it's only for the T_V_  because we want to be quick on on the market . And then also we have to make very   clear that this  this remote control is is part of of our products and show our corporate  logo and and colours on the on the design as well so that  they identify it as one of our product . marketing: project manager: So before  finishing we can  define  what would be the characteristic of the o th of the control of the remote control and which button do we need which function do we want etcetera . project manager: So do you  so so from from the the Marketing Expert I think a key aspect is the easy to use aspect , it should be very simple and most button are never used marketing:  . project manager: only ten per cent of the button are are used often so I think we have to do something very simple and I think we all agree on that point , no ? industrial designer: user interface: Well if it is going to be just a T_V_ remote control it is going to be very simple . So few buttons , channel , volume control and what el what function do you see in addition to that ? user interface: Well if it's going to be as simple as possible then just have the remote control , there is no other function that I can see project manager: Yeah . project manager: Maybe switch T_V_ on and off user interface:  industrial designer: project manager: user interface: no you want to keep television on so that the advertising can revenue can come back to us . project manager: And that's all ? industrial designer:  I know that som you say that many people are doing plenty of a lot of zapping . user interface: industrial designer: I know tha I discovered that when I did a quick look ,  they do now som they do something which is quite nice now , user interface: It's a memory , yeah . industrial designer: you have a button , you you press it , and this is  the previous channel which has come back . So we have like channel button , the previous channel button , the volume button , plus a mute button , and  just the the traditional on off button . I I talk about that , yeah ? user interface: How should they how should we implement that ? Because  could be numerical only or could be also incremental . This is  incremental , but once you press it for a long time , you go five by five . It's an interesting idea , that if you press it for a long time it does something else , in general . So if you you have your ten buttons for the for the numeric the numerical buttons and you have instead of having just one memory industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: Maybe we should have also a digit button user interface: Maybe we should have a complete keyboard and just type console commands . project manager: I dunno bec because if you have the user interface: Well if it's useful like if if you want to change between three channels for example then you h you cannot you cannot cannot work with just memory being incremental . Because you have your previous channel button if you have incremental only it's not  it isn't worth it because the previous channel is eith either minus one or plus one . project manager: Maybe we we can make very obvious the channel and volume button button and smaller button down there with the the digits . user interface: Yeah when you zap usually you will have to press the same button all the time project manager: Yeah . user interface: Hey I just thought this thing industrial designer: You user interface: there is a  you know there is are some with a wheel like this . project manager: So have a wheel for incremental , have the digits  on the lower side that can be closed so as you say protected , industrial designer: project manager: and  yeah I think this is the basi user interface: On the lower side I think it you have to turn it . industrial designer: Or a or a ball , yeah , not a a wheel but a ball , and you say  to project manager: No , a wheel is better . user interface: So you have to the user has to like to should feel the the the discrete sense a bit . project manager: Well also we have to decide  so it should be lightening in the dark I think because most people lost their remote control . industrial designer: 'S quite it's quite easy we do that w with back light on the on the wheel . Even if i L_E_D_  or a if if it's the L_C_D_ feature  industrial designer: A blue a blue L_E_D_ and we sell that  . project manager: and do we put an L_C_D_ display ? marketing: user interface: Yeah . If you do not multi function then there is no p point in having L_C_D_ . project manager: And so no speech as well because it w it would delay too much the development process user interface: Well if it's going to delay yeah industrial designer: Okay . Because a user could say C_N_N_ for example and it would go C_N_N_ . project manager: and Maybe we can just  industrial designer: Ten years project manager: user interface: project manager: Okay . So  I I will  I will so I we will move to next meeting so in after the lunch break  here are the individual  action  you are required to do industrial designer: project manager: but you will be  recalled to the actions by  email I think but you can take notes if you if you want but well the instruction will be sent . project manager: and I I will make a summary of that meeting that I will put in the shared folder you can't see industrial designer: Okay . marketing: project manager: and  and then you will  you will be able to to see what has been  has been said on on this meeting and and what has been decided . user interface: What is the folder that you put yours in ? And did it it did work ? marketing: No . Okay ? user interface: Okay what is your email ? project manager: So yeah I I'm it's in the first  email so I'm participant one at AMI user interface: At participant one 