project manager: Okay so we're here to talk about the detailed design of the product , 'kay ? user interface: Yep .  I'm just gonna open , say a few boring words to start with again , and start taking minutes afterwards . You guys are gonna give us a presentation of our wonder product that I can see some demonstrations of over there . marketing: Bra user interface: project manager: Then we're gonna talk about finance , and I've got a lovely Excel spreadsheet that I knocked up in the last five minutes for this . project manager: So industrial designer: project manager: Your thing is in where is it ? Is it in user interface: Three , three . Production costs estimated by our manufacturing department and  the research department , which is us , is  fifteen point eight Euros , user interface: industrial designer: someone forgot the units there user interface: Unit price .  we implemented the basic functions , which is just T_V_ functions plus the locator , which was one of the marketing things , cradle , scroll wheel for  the the channels , and  we implemented the f the the way of putting the new and revolutionary zapping , your favourite channels functionality , in the scroll . So this is the user interface: So here I'll give you the so this is the cradle unit , and this is the actual remote itself .  so the scroll bar is or the scroll wheel is this this green little scrolly guy here ,  and then the volume controls are here and here . user interface:  you've got the keypad which is the numbers  f from zero to nine and then ten .  we have our  we have the enter button and  what was the other button here ? This is the teletext . industrial designer: Start s the the start  to to to user interface: The programme button , industrial designer: programme yeah . So this bl this button will be used both for the favourites and for programming your  the  the type of television you wanna use . So  the plastic is the white area of this of the model here , and the red area is like a rubber covering . user interface: So you can see that when it lays like this or like this and the buttons are all gonna be rubber , so it's pretty hard to actually damage it  project manager: Is that could that be easy to for the scroll wheel to be rotated if it lands on it ? user interface: Yeah that might be a possible a mi  possible problem , but if you drop it industrial designer: Not helping . user interface: Yeah and it depends on if it's sliding , but I think it's pretty ergonomic . industrial designer: project manager: I take it that this is gonna be slightly lighter in the final design as well . user interface: Yeah the the power button is a bit of a reach , but I think we might scale down the final model a bit . user interface: These this is a bit larger than it would be , but project manager: It's cool . user interface: project manager: And hold it so marketing:  that's project manager: wh what's the marketing perspective ? marketing: oh that's oh I like it .  you guys gave me more than I was asking for , so I'm happy because we've got some really marketable features in this . So you ha you have like the the base station with  the little button for the where's my remote . industrial designer: Wicked isn't it ? project manager: So let me get it , user interface: so project manager: if I press this button user interface: beep beep beep project manager: I see . industrial designer: marketing: So you can take this ho take this home with you tonight and you can push that and he'll be across town user interface: Beep beep beep project manager: I plan to do that as well .  no no no tha that's alri project manager: So the the two blue are are those for the the it to charge off of in ? user interface: Exactly that's exactly what those are for . user interface: And  there's one other feature that we were debating , but we decided to go against it , is  you could industrial designer: project manager: user interface: beep beep beep industrial designer: user interface: we were thinking that it might be interesting to have a trigger button here because you have this finger project manager: Yeah it's the right shape isn't it ? user interface: it it's it kinda feels like there should be something there , but we couldn't figure out what button is important enough to put there . And we we don't wanna accidentally be hitting the power button like that so project manager: But maybe if you had a trigger plus the scroll then that would get past the the problem of it landing and scrolling , user interface:  . So maybe in a final design phase we might tweak that a little bit , project manager: Okay . project manager: But it's definitely got options for like different types of models and things as well based on that , hasn't it ? user interface: The scroll wheels , a problem with them not being sort of user interface: industrial designer: project manager: I don't think the user interface guy wants to touch it anymore . marketing: Well  of course ,  user interface: industrial designer: marketing: My my s my suggestion is we're gonna go go to the silvers and blacks like most of the televisions . user interface: marketing: So you're not gonna find my  my folder up there I gotta do mine up at the board . So project manager: Can I not get your get at stuff from your shared folder now ? marketing: No it's not in there because I had the computer problem and I I I cou I couldn't create it . marketing: I couldn't create it in the PowerPoint , project manager: marketing: and I think I've got this really strange cable . So what I had , basically going from the PowerPoint format , is that  yeah yeah I like this a lot . Is this one of the tests is to see how we can adapt to s changing situations in the in the meeting room ? project manager: industrial designer: Nah . We've got the features , we have the  characteristics , and we have the I I don't know what we would call the other part what we call you know the the the corp corporate Help me . So the features I think we got the scroll , we've got the  the locator , we've got the durability , we've got the dependability , industrial designer: It fell off . marketing: the characteristics I talk about , we have reliability , we have comfort , we have ergonomics , we have environmentally s sensitive .  and the corporation , we're talking about we're we're a new we're a new company . We're wanting you to  find our product so we're gonna give you a good product at a fair price . One thing I would want to to see is  is can we can we get a lifetime  guarantee on this product , a normal use guarantee , which means that this product , for the for the life of of the life use , if it should have a technical problem , that we could re replace it at no cost ? That was something I would be interested in .  so yeah without  going into great details , we have a we have a product , it has the features and the characteristics , and the background , I believe , to make it marketable I believe at a cost of of of thirty thirty five to to fifty Euros . We're gonna be competitive , and we're gonna we're gonna have a market niche .  w project manager: Do you would you a argue that that we're better going for the higher cost than bringing it down into twenty f five as we probably could , but lowering our profit margins ? marketing: That that would be  that would be I think a decision best made by corporate  I I m for my evaluation , based on what our competition is , I th I think that that we can go after this and and and go after more of the  exclusivity sense than the mass market sense . But you guys came up with a great product , and at that cost I think it  there's nobody else that's putting this this combination of of ingredients together . But with all of these other features I think people c one thing I'm I'm hoping for is people are not gonna even notice . There's gonna be somebody going home and say oh sh this thing doesn't work for my D_V_D_ and my but I like these other things , so they keep it , they don't take it back . project manager: And we're actually quite open to be able to expand the product for a later version with those features quite simply anyway , aren't we ? Th there's no fundamentally different technology to do that . marketing: Well one of one of the thoughts that I had is can can this unit be be produced in a way that makes it upgradable ? project manager:  . You know is there a card in th can we make a card and so after industrial designer: W we need we need we need s some more buttons if it would to work on some other stuff , but user interface: marketing: - , but you follow what I'm s I'm s industrial designer: We we w yeah we could get another version of it that actually works . But  marketing: Yeah 'cause if if we can make this unit upgradable then we're yeah but then we talk about changing the warranty concept and everything , but that's that was just an idea I had .  to me the only additions project manager: Yeah , the plus there's the the risk of making it unusable as well , or making it less b because at the moment it's actually very straightforward to look at all the buttons , you know what they do , it's very simple , and it just works . So I have a little spreadsheet for us where I I was wondering , you when you talked about the fifteen point eight Euros , I was wondering how you came up with that figure ? user interface: Well , that was just just our technical team added up the  production costs of the individual units . project manager: I've made a f few assumptions here in that I'm assuming that our power adaptor we can make for a cost of four Euros , user interface: -huh . project manager: equivalent to solar cells , which I think is probably fair considering that we have in-house manufacturing of power adaptors already . project manager:  and I'm assuming that the locator beacon , the you know the user interface: Yeah . project manager: Can be made for it sounded different that time  can be made for a similar price to  an L_C_ display , user interface: Oh , sorry . industrial designer: project manager:  an   do you think that's fair coming from a m the manufacturing ? user interface: Yeah  I do think we that we we  don't need the events chip on print , we only need the  the regular chip on print , project manager: . user interface: And we and we have a single-curved  project manager: Is that a single-curved rather than a double-curved ? user interface:  I think that project manager: We're not entirely sure what single-curve versus double-cur marketing: We've got a we've got a curve and a droop . user interface: It's single-curved , project manager: You think ? Okay user interface: yeah . But we save one Euro that way , yeah ? So we come bring it down to Fifteen point four . marketing: project manager: Do don't speak so it's in here , in that user interface: Okay . project manager: w do we have any we have special form don't we ? user interface: Yeah we do . project manager: But the the the we haven't talked about any special colour though  I don't th user interface: Oh it's a that's not very special , it's pretty project manager: if we're going for greys and silvers then I don't think we're O okay so we're user interface: If th . project manager: Push-button , scroll wheel , we're basically we have  th industrial designer: We don't project manager: is this intended to be a button as well or just a scroll ? user interface: That's a scroll . project manager: Just a scroll ? It's not one of the scrolls where , for example , with this one you could push it down to be a button ? user interface:  no we just use it as a scroll . project manager: Okay so we're on to the user interface: S 's kind of s frighteningly accurate . project manager: We're on to the pat-on-the-back part of the presentation , where we have a look at the criterias th that Paul the criterion criteria that Paul has has given us , and we can use that to tell How's it going ? Anyone got any thoughts ? user interface: What ? project manager: How how have we done today ? user interface: I think we did pretty well . marketing: No , I think we come up with a with a attractive marketable  product and and concept . project manager: Any other chang  thoughts ? Okay so th th what about  room for creativity ? marketing: project manager: Is it the . marketing: well we we we kinda broke we kinda at least adjusted every every criteria they gave us project manager:  . marketing: because we d we still have the the teletext capability in this thing right , user interface: marketing: So you know you know if this thing flies then we've we've adjusted or broken every every idea they gave us . project manager:  no yeah but we did we did break with the specs a little bit I guess , industrial designer: project manager: but the  marketing: But I like  when I say we have we had I believe we have room for creativity 'cause w this is we did it . project manager: 'Kay leadership , what do we report back to the bosses ? No th th I think they were r reasonably flexible with us over the whole changing the specs thing . industrial designer: It was more of a teamwork thing then really leadership based project was project manager: I agree . industrial designer: That's almost a crotch mi cr project manager: That's it's down , it's quite close . marketing: You know you know what they're gonna have on the recording in there from that microphone is your lunch digesting you know th project manager: Keep it , keep it calm . marketing: project manager: So yeah the the pen came in alright and it's a little uncomfortable to use but I guess it works . marketing: industrial designer: project manager: I've been wor I've been wondering about that all day , but see these look like they're that looks the oth that looks like it would be that way around , industrial designer: Use them like that . What new ideas have we found ? industrial designer: user interface: Oh wel marketing: New ideas f  for the product or for the the the the environment or project manager: Well let's do both then . marketing: what are we ta project manager:  for the product ? user interface: Well we had the favourites list , and the scroll bar , and we have the cradle , and the r  remote call feature . project manager: And for the meeting room , Has anyone got any more industrial designer: Yeah comfortable headsets would be nice . marketing: clearly remote control microphones would be the would be a nice solution to all these cables , but I'm sure that there's there's some justification for these things that I don't know about . user interface: marketing: It's not been  it's not been cooperating so well , but I don't think that's the that's avoidable . project manager: Oh hang on it really that's something we that the costs were under twelve fifty Euros . industrial designer: project manager: And the costs within the budget ? Not the original budget , but they are now . user interface: industrial designer: Who wrote that one ? project manager: Thank user interface: project manager: Thanks guys . marketing: S I've got a lot of paperwork to catch up on so let's close this and come back and 'kay 