project manager: So  I will again do the secretary part  we will have three presentation first   the industrial design , first Rama then Mark and then Sammy . project manager:   we have to take a decision on the control remote control concepts and we have forty minutes . project manager: So what we want to the decision we want to take on this meeting are on the  first on the component concept , so what kind of energy we use  what kind of chip on print and one ki kind of case . And at the end  Sammy will give  a trend watching on what he's he's been doing . So we're to mainly design f mainly need to know which components we'll use for energy , and the material and interface . First one , we can use simple battery , or we can use traditional solar cells or  and the material we can have plastic , rubber which is good for this R_S_A_ marketing: Ah . industrial designer: and then  titanium , which can be which have very good look an and then interface we're to use push buttons or liquid crystal d L_C_D_ display . So , as we discussed before , we need to we would like to have some speech recognition s chip in our remote control . Still we are looking for possible  technical  specifications and how w easy we can do and within our pri range , like we're to in our twelve Euros or around that . So we are looking for simple devices or simple technology to do the location of remote control in a room or in a house . So we would like to propose battery instead of solar cells and it would be problematic  to have enough energy with the solar cells marketing: And also we want to go for titanium design instead of rubber or and well the problem is with this design we found that we can't use double-curved shapes . user interface: Why ? industrial designer:  it's I think in manufacturing I guess it's problematic . So , we want to go for simple push buttons because it need a simple chip and it's really lesser  re really less expensive compared to L_C_D_ marketing: industrial designer: which are  which needs advanced chip technology and it's more expensive , user interface: industrial designer: since we want to put some other features such as speech recognition marketing: industrial designer: we want to reduce  cost . project manager:  I want to know why it b  just  sorry but for the point before  why not the rubber , if it is something that it seems to be light . industrial designer:   And also like in if you put a it's be difficult to do all the moulding of buttons and these things project manager: Okay . user interface: W we can use something like you know the whole body's titanium but there are some rubber or I dunno some rubber parts like industrial designer: Yeah . marketing:  like this ? project manager: Yes so  user interface: to make it feel better and to you know industrial designer: Like in cell phones recently project manager: -huh . industrial designer: And this push buttons project manager:  yeah so industrial designer: we we would like to use push buttons instead of L_C_D_s and so we want to mo  we're we want to put speech recognition so we want to reduce price on this technology and so that we can have enough space or enough money project manager: Okay , s so simple button and  speech recognition for the more complicated . industrial designer: for S S marketing: Speech industrial designer: Y yeah we have simple buttons and speech recognition technology , user interface: user interface: Okay , and still we have industrial designer: so user interface:  can we still include the L_ L_S_D_ display ? marketing: L_C_D_ . industrial designer:  l marketing: Seems not , it's either L_C_D_ or push-button . industrial designer: So  user interface: No , industrial designer: it's like a user interface: it's not gonna be a t no touchable but still like a source of information or source for menus . industrial designer: Yeah maybe maybe we can see depending on how we'll come up with our full design then if we have enough money or like for and user interface: Okay , so let's try it , let's t industrial designer: because the speech recognition technology will take at least five Euros or or something so we want to reduce the cost on display marketing: The L_C_D_ would industrial designer: or this inter marketing: The display would only be display and not  touch sensitive you mean . user interface: Yeah , yeah , it's it's not gonna be a touch pad ,  just a display for giving you information . Yeah , we're to go for li and now I think we have many options in the market so we can go for small nickel or alkaline batteries marketing: Okay . marketing: So this device on n that can be used for speech recognition could also be used for just  the finding it basically , instead of clapping why not just be ask . industrial designer: Yeah , that's then the the one thing we want to know is like because remote control is used for like in the household so it it it will be it m maybe at least five , six people want to use it so so how to   how to define our re speech recognition marketing: If we're going for more speaker independent then it would be like again cumbersome and we need really m more technology project manager: Okay , industrial designer: and so project manager: for the location . industrial designer: Yeah , if if everybody in the house n to locate then we're to go for some speaker independent technology or something . So let's now go to the you don't have more question ? industrial designer: marketing: No , it's okay . user interface: But still  L_S_D_'s already quite nice , marketing: L_C_D_ . user interface: L_C_ marketing: L_S_D_ is something else , industrial designer: marketing: and it's quite nice as well . user interface:    have a look at this project manager: industrial designer: user interface: no it's yeah . Generally I developed quite a broad concept not only for the interface , but for possible instruction or user's manual and  all the complex things that come together with your T_V_ and remote controls . We got our perfect remote control with a lot of buttons marketing: user interface: and  we got explanation for every button industrial designer: user interface: and you can use your time and  it will take i some days to learn all this buttons and  the L_C_D_ is going to be somewhere here and  go back button , I don't know really where it is , maybe one of this buttons , and  power on and off  I I don't remember project manager:  . industrial designer: marketing: user interface: so  it it it should be maybe this button is power on and off ? Or no ? I can see nothing . industrial designer: user interface: And it's got just few buttons , quite low looking , and all this stuff we already we already discussed . marketing: Do you think it can come in several colours ? user interface: And everyone's gonna be satisfied . marketing: Or did the user interface: I would make a backlight of the L_C_D_ screen with different colours . marketing: Yeah , well they like  something which is  user interface: Okay , so let's remember there's a Nokia phone which changeable panels . marketing:  yeah , okay , user interface: Do you like it ? marketing: so that would be the option . I don't know I don't have a Nokia phone , project manager: industrial designer: But it's  marketing: but I don't use that but again ,  I might user interface: That's why you don't have it . marketing: bu but project manager: industrial designer: But it would be expensive , no ? If you use colour L_C_D_ . industrial designer: Maybe we can just if users want more colours they can pay more money to get this  the shapes and they can have different assembly . industrial designer: So users have different  they have their own interests , colour interests and so project manager: So ? user interface: project manager: you you propose something with option i that increase the price if we if you want o more colours on L_C_D_ , industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: Okay , what  there's one more decisi  one more solution in fact ,  'cause there are some some paints that can change colour according to where they are , like they can reflect different colours depending on what is around , like what colour is around , and depending on the temperature , industrial designer: Lights , yeah . project manager: But  it can be in  maybe in an a gradable version , user interface: - , - , project manager: but industrial designer: Yeah . Those for which the remote control is  is to be  something useful  I'm going to talk about this later but and those for which is something that that that  is  specific to them so it it's like a signature . project manager: Okay marketing: project manager: and you think that we don't have to make to make them pay more because of  o or this is industrial designer: marketing: I think I think they would be ready p ready to pay more for that . project manager: so i it's not  a s base service industrial designer:  marketing: No  no . industrial designer: But those people will be really few , no ? So like we can those marketing: The the young people the young people want to be different from their friends . project manager: maybe that's if that it's a selling point maybe it has to be the base . But you know if you want to be different you just take your remote control with you all the time . user interface: Anyone has their remote controls here ? marketing: Oh , you don't ? Yeah . You don't have your remo user interface: No ? industrial designer: marketing: Wh you you know like for instance take the iPod . marketing: It has this distinctive look and feel and look which people seems to like user interface: Okay . marketing: just because it's a colour that we don't usually see in a remote control . Hand light , marketing:  glow in the dark , industrial designer: project manager: user interface: yeah . industrial designer: Yeah marketing: so industrial designer: maybe like the infrared like we can put some radium chips or something marketing: user interface: user interface: but how smart should it be to not to complicate things too much ? project manager: user interface: And  industrial designer: user interface: I dunno marketing: user interface: that's a question to you and to  to marketing: Well so I heard that  it seems that speech recognition is something that can be done  so that's the smartness of the thing . marketing: Currently we don't have guns with speech recognition or  beer cans with speech recognition industrial designer: marketing: but we may have remote controls with speech recognition . Are are you saying here that  the remote controls should be aware of who is using it ? So for instance the young guy would not be able to use it because his father doesn't want . industrial designer:  that  that could be feasible I guess , like So since we have we want to do some speaker dependent speech recognition  so we can use marketing: Okay . marketing: But for instance th I I'm thinking about the other   particularity that the the remote control could have . S since it it knows who is using it , it might also record the kind of  channels you are u more often using and  levels of volumes that you're more often  things like that industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: and provide you ways of using them , I dunno , somehow , industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: but industrial designer:  it's marketing: that might also be a good sales pitch again . Okay , so I'm going to talk about trends and  I hope this can help us to to understand l how we should design our remote control . So first maybe just a small recap on how how do we watch trends so it's not so  simple you might think that it's easy but  it's not so simple . Anyway these days  the best  source of information is the web as you know , so have to to go often on the web and look at  what the others are doing , and ask real people who are using real remote controls every day  or any other tool that is similar to a remote control which basically is a small device that people have with them , always , like a phone . Of course those tha d who are watching the trends are also have also to be inspired because in fact they're not only watching the trends , they're inventing it , they're creating the trend . This is more risky because you're not following the trend , project manager: marketing: you try to invent it , which means either you succeed and you make a lot of money or you don't and you're out of business .  to be to be quick there's a lot of words here but  basically there are  in in the market of of remote controls there are three aspects that we should very pay much attention to . The first one , which seems to be the most important one , is that it has to be fancy , it has to have a fancy look and feel . Strangely enough it's more important to be fancy than to be wi and now that's the second thing it has to be , it has to be technologically i innovative , industrial designer: marketing: it has to be new with some of  new  technology inside and  and this is also  more important than the last thing which we w may think that would have been the most important , which is that it should be easy to use and it should be easy to use as a remote control . So as you see  it first have to be very nice , s something that people are proud of   that i  they can be id identified with  and and then  something that  contains very novel stuff that they can talk about with their friends , huh , mine has this and not yours . And finally of course it has to be useful as a remote control but it seems that it's not so important that it's useful as a remote control . If we look back and not  look at only remote controls I think it's important to see that the trends are quite the same in many areas so currently the the trends that we see in l in l big cities like Paris and Milan , well , it seems that this year things should have  a fruit and vegetable  way of of look or feel project manager: industrial designer: marketing: or so . And  if we co we compare to last year , now it has to be spongy , industrial designer:  . Well project manager: industrial designer: Yeah marketing: this so so I think   i industrial designer: kind of  maybe marketing: When we were talking about rubber , industrial designer: Yeah it marketing: I think  the rubber aspect might be important because it's what is probably more feasible in terms of sponginess . marketing: So project manager: It seems to be marketing: Think more of  something in the colours of  like fruit and vegetables and spongy , industrial designer: Fruit . Even shape ? marketing: as a even in the shape it has to be more round and  more   look natural somehow . marketing: So that's what people seem to yeah i I know it's quite far from what you thought project manager: Sorry . industrial designer: marketing: but that's that's fashion and project manager: industrial designer: user interface: Okay . project manager:  you have questions ? industrial designer: So these abilities are mainly ad addressed by young people ? Or it's marketing: These I'm sorry . industrial designer: This you you so did you marketing: Yeah , yeah we have people   listening to the trends everywhere in the world , of course , industrial designer: Where ? Oh . marketing: as you know our company is quite big and  so I'm just asking them what are the current trends according to them when they go in the stores and when they ask  their  friends industrial designer: It's not from  . marketing: The what we industrial designer: Yeah but some materials n they're to be  they're to be something like solid like they can't be really spongy marketing: Sure . marketing: We have to I think we have to have the look of fruit and vegetables industrial designer: yeah , yeah sponge , yeah yeah at least that's marketing: but we still have to put our chips inside , so of course . We can have t colours or this shape marketing: Yeah , I think in the colours and in the  the kind of material . industrial designer: or at least marketing: If if it's something like rubber made or I think it it's also going to be good .  now you have to go straight on this individual action which i which are for Rama  wil design , industrial designer: Look and feel de project manager:  Mark the user interface design , and  Sammy  the product evaluation . industrial designer: So , can we highlight the specific features of our project manager: Yeah you're right , you have to industrial designer: yeah , so so we want the speech recogniser and we want some kind of buttons and we want some themes like fruits or vegetables , project manager: So industrial designer: that's project manager: you say s industrial designer: we want to follow general trend . industrial designer: So , do you think marketing: No , we don't have to , user interface: So we have to  for project manager: No . marketing: industrial designer: So what about location and these things , people are really interesting on those features ? Or they really like They more want these fancy features marketing:  I think i industrial designer: like marketing: yeah i it's again in this  what I said first it has to be fancy so I think if nobody else pro provides currently a remote control with that kind of stuff and if we can provide it I think it's a good sell for us project manager: Do we take titanium smelling like fruit , or do we make spongy  fruity-like marketing: industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: industrial designer:  yeah at least like we can make banana or project manager: Don't you say that you cannot do double shape  curved shape user interface: But Doub double-curved . industrial designer: and and s we're to see the whether rubber is expensive user interface: Okay , okay . industrial designer: we have only the plastic or the the chippy yeah fibre chips or user interface: We'll see . I I really don't like this modelling clay 'cause you know it makes some for for industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: So still we want to keep L_C_D_ ? Or project manager:  I think it's what we say , that we have an  an L_C_D_ with  information . marketing: The thing is that  if we want to have as he says if we want to have  a small number of buttons we need to have a kind of output that says currently what their actions are . industrial designer: and we just stick with two batteries so it's not any solar or marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: yeah yeah j yeah , marketing: Classical , we stay classical in that we don't reinvent  the wheel . marketing: Anyway it's very in general I think people  change T_V_ more often than batteries of their remote control 