project manager: and everybody's name and what your function is ? marketing: Yeah , that's a good plan .   my role is industrial designer and my responsibilities are    deal with the technical-functional designs and specifications of user interface and dealing with user interface design . project manager: Yes y opening , acquaintance , tool training well , the tools are , I think , we already I guess the tool is really our the computer , as far as I can see . project manager:  we get ins each of us will get instructions and we'll take it from there . That is it's gonna be individual work and then at the meeting we'll discuss what  we have come up with . Does anybody want to go and see how the white board works ? So that in case we have to , in the next meeting , present something on the white board . marketing: See if I r See if I remember how to draw a kitty cat or a rabbit or something . user interface: industrial designer: marketing: project manager: And remember you have to press so it works . project manager: And you're Francine , right ? Would you like s like just to see  how it feels , so that you have a little idea ? user interface: Yes , I'm Francina . project manager: In marketing: Am I supposed to wipe off that or project manager: No , no . project manager: user interface: industrial designer: project manager: Here's the project finance  which , of course , we all have to think about when we design this thing . project manager: So these are all things , of course , to remember with the budget and when you design to materials , cost , etcetera . Now ,  the discussion I guess is  does anyone of you have experience with remote control ? marketing: Oops . project manager: I exp I s 'cause we we use 'em we use 'em , right , everyday . project manager: And  now having used a remote control for years does anybody already have like an idea like things you didn't like with it , things you would like to change , things you would like to improve with this thing ye any first ideas ? Would you like it to be smaller , bigger , industrial designer:  . project manager: have more have more buttons on it or maybe clearly better marked buttons , you know , things like that ? user interface: Yeah , I industrial designer: Yeah . Like  the remote control which we use for T_V_ , it shou  it should be used f  for some other purpose also , like controlling the  temperature inside the house or for air-conditioners , or for heating system . project manager: So it should be a multi-functional  gadget that would  control all your household   machines basically . marketing: We certainly can try to I agree with her that to market something successfully it should do some more things . project manager: It should be something new it should be s it it should do something different than than just what we have . All the almost all the remotes project manager: Like trendy no like f for earlier we saw maybe it should be something trendy you know . project manager:  so yeah shapes right , you know , like kidney shape feels better in your hand or something , you know . marketing: I think another thing that would help is  if it beeps when you clap , project manager: Yes . project manager: That is true , user interface: project manager: because they put a newspaper or they put it behind a plant or , we you know , whatever . project manager: And and they suddenly the phone rings and they want to turn the T_V_ off and they say , where the hell is my my remote control yeah ? marketing: industrial designer: project manager: Well or yeah or if it's really , if it's really in a dark spot that it gives out a a sound or a signal . marketing: So some industrial designer: Yeah , some beep or something like that , project manager: Yeah . user interface: Or a b marketing:  so , so it's really the beep or , or a light should blink . industrial designer: so that we can go project manager: So if lost If lost  signal with b throw signal , you know . industrial designer: Yeah , maybe it should have a light so that we can , we can just recognise where it is . project manager: I'm just saying throw signal meaning just whether it's a beep or whether a light or industrial designer: Beep or  it's a light , maybe it's a light . marketing: And do you think a good c c  clue for that is that it would respond to a clap or it would respond to your voice or it would respond what what should you have to do to make it beep or blink ? project manager: Okay , my my idea is maybe that the minute it's really hidden , in in other words if it's like in a dark spot ,  meaning you know like a newspaper is on top , a sweater is on top or it it's behind a plant , at that moment it's it's like , it's like  , what you call it a light s sensors , you know ? marketing: project manager: In in that moment it has a sensor , i it it gets a certain darkness , it ge has a sensor and it gives out a signal whether that be a light signal or a beep , marketing: Okay so user interface: Yes . project manager: right you have to have some kind of sensor and I I think  voice or clapping it's not specific enough .  I know there are the lamps and stuff , you know , you can clap on and off , marketing: project manager: but I think they only work to certain degree and marketing: But it could be someplace really obvious and you still wouldn't be able to find it . project manager: What with industrial designer: Yeah , of course , that didn't user interface: Then , in that case marketing: Well , because you're s because you're silly . marketing:  it could be on well , i if it were like on top of your bookcase and you usually kept it on the coffee table industrial designer: marketing: project manager: Okay we have  marketing: you know , well maybe we have to move along , okay . project manager: yeah , we have to move along , but I think we have some good good points to start with here . I think you all did you get  notices on your computer for this ? Okay so well , you got the notice  industrial designer: Me yeah . The working design , I guess that's the function I_D_  who is this ? The industrial designer That's you . project manager: industrial designer:  working design , yeah , it's it's  mainly technical-functional design . project manager: Then And then the technical funct you are the technical function , industrial designer: Yeah , functional design , project manager: so so you are the working design . project manager: And the marketing manager is coming up with some user requirement specification , like friendliness , and what we just discussed in general . user interface: project manager: And , you know , specifi you you will get specific  instructions for that . project manager: I think basically basically you will get instructions to work with and if you have any questions  ,  I guess , you can  user interface: Okay 