And  I want to introduce myself ,  my name is  Shrida Daseri and  I'm a project manager for this new project which we are going to discuss now . And what you're  drawing ? user interface:  sure my name is Agnes and I'm an user usability user interface designer . So thanks for coming for the meeting first of all , and  we have a long time , just twenty-five minutes to discuss about  this project and the the project initiation . First of all I want to ask  Mister Ed about your  marketing plan and your product plan and  marketing: Well I think that we'll see that throughout the day in how we're going to put this together as a marketing to to market the product . We'll have to see on a through discussion on where we're gonna go from here and from with this . project manager: - but  do you already have like a functional design or a technical design or marketing:  for the moment not yet . project manager: Oh for the moment not yet , okay , but  what's what's your  do you have some project plan , something with you or marketing: Good question . No , this is like I said that we have to be discussed between all of us and we'll go from there . Okay , so  by when you think you can  give me some kind of  project plan , okay , a discussion with  marketing: Certainly by the next meeting .  Okay , so there's any questions or  first of all about  this project ? industrial designer: What is the goal of the project ? project manager:  the goal of the project I think maybe I'll  hand out to the Ed , okay , so to explain  what is the project because he's in the sales and the accounting . marketing: industrial designer: marketing: I'm in the sales I'm supposed to explain them what to do . We have to define exactly what our product is , from  project manager: Yes , so can you explain  what exactly the product is ? marketing: From what I had in mind we're supposed to be marketing coffee , is that right ? project manager: Oh I think  , if I'm not wrong , we're making the remote control . I had a first part of mine was to make a remote control for a new f remote control for television , and afterward I had a discussion about coffee so project manager: Yes . marketing: Something  visual that has something that will will draw people to buy the product , project manager: marketing: because I think everybody's experienced with  remote controls , and some remote controls are are worth  throwing out the window .  th most of them ar I don't know we're have to come up with a new idea on how to make it a lot easier to use , project manager: marketing: 'cause a lot of times  spend  half a day through the instruction book trying to figure out how to use it . project manager: And  what abo  Christine , what about your  the industrial design plan ? Are you have a design already on this product or  you're still working on the design ? industrial designer:  no , I I have not begun working on the design , project manager: industrial designer: and  I  I actually didn't know we were designing a remote control , I thought we were designing a new monitor .  the website I went to look at had some announcements about an introduction of a   some sort of a seven inch  monitor , and  I understood that that was the project goal . So  I'm glad I didn't d do any work  ahead of time because  I clearly didn't understand the project goal . industrial designer:  I just did s see that we were starting a new project together and there was going to be a four member team composed of these people , and  that's about  that's project manager: industrial designer: and I I read through the different steps , and what my responsibilities were relative to the steps . project manager: So  you'll be leading the team for your design team or how many members is working in the team , for the design ? industrial designer:  for the industrial design ? project manager: Yes . marketing: project manager: That's industrial designer:  because  , you know , you can  you can make it  you have different choices with different financial models . project manager: Yeah , but  before we talk about  the finance , okay ,  do you have some idea how we can  sell this product or project in the market and how much is going to benefit to the company and  of course it's to the individual also . industrial designer: Well , you know  , I kind of think that in general you have to do   y you have to have something that's very fashionable , that's  very attractive that  people see and recognize  its goal , and  they immediately wanna have it  have one of their own . So it would really would need to  something like the iPod would be good , seems to have caught on fairly well , project manager: industrial designer: so  d  you know , I don't care what it does , just so it looks cool . project manager: Okay , but   when you think you can give me like a kind of design on the functional design or the technical design ? industrial designer: Well ,  I've got a lot of other projects I'm doing right now  and so I'll have to wait and see how those  how those go . project manager: Yeah , but  I need something in the writing , so like  what's your functional design , what's your technical design , and  how many people you need for this project , and what's the time frame you're looking , okay , and what is the budget , maybe  initial budget you're looking , okay , and  how is going to the market , okay , industrial designer: project manager: so you've you've had to meet with the marketing team and how they're going to market and what are the marketing strategic plan , okay , when are you going to introduce , okay , and by the time you introduce the product and  you know there there would be a competition , okay , so I need some kind of   the plan in the writing from you . Okay , and it's po industrial designer: And when would you like that ? project manager: B as soon as possible . industrial designer:  well if  if we have enough time  then d do you think  two weeks is a is close enough ? project manager: Yes I think  that would be good , because I need to go to the management and  tell them what we are going to do , and  what cost is , okay , and what's the time frame and what's the project plan , because  without any  documentations , I cannot go to the management and say , so we are going to do this and we need this much money , okay , so then it's it's difficult for me to say , okay , that's the reason I need  some kind of plan from you , initially , okay , then we can have the further discussion again . industrial designer:  are there other people who will be contributing to the plan ? project manager: Yes , of course , if you need some help ,  so let me know . So , who are the people you need  from the marketing or  the technical side or  the administration point of view , okay , to add in any documentation , or some technical point of view , industrial designer: project manager: so just let me know so I can  coordinate all the teams . And  Ed  so what's what do you think about  this  project for the remote control and d do you have some already planned something for your marketing strategy or  the sales strategy ? marketing: Well not yet other than  doing research and taking remote controls and looking what other companies have to do  , what they're building , their designs , their ideas , project manager:  . marketing: It should be a fairly large market because  the number of people that  the competition , project manager: marketing:  th I agree it has to be something it has to be something new , it has to be something that that draws people saying eh , I like this . Whether it works or not , they have to first say I like this , I like the design , and then it's gotta be simple to use . project manager: Yes , so what I  prefer maybe  you need to interact  more with the Christine , okay , because you know what she is going to do it , okay , and you know how to sell it . Okay , because  she is doing the design , but you are the core because you are in the marketing , okay , marketing: Yeah . project manager: so because you need to sell and you're the responsible for the all the money , the finance , okay , tomorrow . project manager: So , what I prefer , okay , so you need to interact with the Christine more and  within her team , okay , who is using the functional design or technical design , okay , marketing: project manager: and  you need to come up with some kind of plan , okay , how we are going to do the your sales plan , okay , th marketing: Do we already have a cost limit on this , th an idea of how much  we want to market this for , how much it's gonna sell for , project manager: Th That that's marketing: that's up that's up to us to decide , eh ? project manager: Yes , that's you have to decide , okay , so the best thing is you  both of  the Christine and you discuss with yourself , okay , and come up with the cost , and how we are going to compete in the market , okay , in the the technically , or in the sales wise , okay , the commercial wise , okay . Then  we have to design , okay , how long it will take the whole project , okay , how much is going to cost us , and how much we are going to benefit for the company . Okay , so I think it's  maybe if we can  give me some kind of your  the sales plan , okay , including the technical what  she's going to talk to you within the team , okay , then it will help me to discuss with the management for further , okay , and put it in the the proper project plan . Okay , and if you need  any coordination in between  compared to the maybe the some technical vendors or commercial vendors , okay , depends if you want to have some   marketing plan or technical plan , okay , so you let me know .  my job from what I understood was to look at the usability requirements and make sure that the product is usable , it's acceptable to the people who are gonna use it and look at the best ways to do that . user interface: So I think I'll have to interact with Christine and discuss with her , so that she's not designing something that my studies will show right off the bat that it's not going to work , project manager: Th Christine , yeah . Which is user interface: and so it's sort of it's a loop that feeds in , but I don't think necessarily that I'm in a coordinating position for it . Yeah , so basically you need to interact with Christine more , okay , for the user acceptability , okay , and the testing , okay , user interface: Yeah . project manager: then you will user interface: Which will also feed into the marketing , project manager: Yes . user interface: because depending on what users want , depends on how you sell it , what tag lines you attach to it , how you try to make it more attractive to users .  , and then I guess build the plan based on all of that , because I think you need to take all the factors into account . But what I request , okay , keep Ed in the loop , okay , in between your  meeting and Christine meeting , because  he should know what's happening . Okay and please please copy all the mails , okay , all the discussions to me , okay , so I need to submit to the management . user interface: So , the immediate next step is to start determining the functional design , or project manager: Yes . To come up with the functional design and  to discuss with Ed , okay , and how it's going to be work , and  first of all with your user acceptance , okay , how it looks like and how it's going to be work in the market , okay , user interface: industrial designer: Would you mind  at the conclusion of our meeting could could you send us a copy of your slides ? project manager: Yes , I will . project manager: I'll copy ,  le let us keep all the emails and all the copies , okay , share each other , okay , so you know everybody what's happening , okay ? user interface: Sure . project manager: And if anything you need anytime so please either you can call me , or just send me email , or  just come and  knock my door , okay , so I'm available here 