So , we will have the three presentations from the In Industrial Designer , User Interface Designer and  industrial designer: Industrial Design . project manager: And after that we  will have the  new product requirements , the decision on the remote control functions , and we will close the meetings after . project manager: No , industrial designer: Three three , it's three project manager: I'm participant one . The first I will present the technical function design for user interface for our  remote T_V_ control . As we know our remote c rem remote T_V_ control it's very has very soph sophisticated functions , as we show from this picture . So how can we  design a user interface with so sa with so many sophisticated functions ?  , let's move to next slide . As we know  Google it's a very successful because his  powerful function , but with very easy to use user interface . project manager: user interface: So my job is to  design a Google T_V_ controller which I want to have sophisticated functions while with very easy to use user interface . So industrial designer: user interface: That's the end of the talk the end of the presentation . user interface:  With sophisticated functions , project manager: So powerful , user interface: but with very yeah powerful . marketing: So , I dunno , it's maybe difficult to have both , industrial designer: To merge the two system huh . marketing: industrial designer: But But this is user interface: But if we have very very good user interface marketing: Yeah , industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: Yeah you maybe you have some international standards , where you know , if you can use one is the other are or almost the same , so the sign . project manager: Oh you mean for the yeah pic pictograms or things like that ? industrial designer: Yeah , yeah . For example , I dunno here , escape , you know , you have escape in computers you have , so if you see escape , you know that it should be the same . industrial designer: So you have to The sh the user there for example the power off button it is something very international , you know that So . project manager: Go on , go back and industrial designer: Yeah , but the question is how to merge you know the Google system to the system , alright . marketing: industrial designer: It you project manager: So , you will propose us something which is yeah so powerful and easy to use . marketing: industrial designer: The rationale must be design , or project manager: So , Baba is the  the Industrial Designer . As you all know , you know m my job is to design you know  to give an industrial design of the remote control . So the re basically the remote control will be , you know , infrared control , so the problem is how to relate the project manager: industrial designer: how to relate the remote control device , like for example this one I h I'm holding in my hand and the T_V_ . industrial designer: but I propose a nifra infrared base you know , so so for me I think that it is better it's bet it's better to control T_V_ project manager: marketing: industrial designer: so you know , so it's it will be cheaper and it is less technology than , you know For the cheap price we have , for the cheap price we want to marketing: True . project manager: So you mean that infrared control is a cheap technology ? industrial designer: I think it's cheaper than laser , so . Do y you know the requirements for the remote control ? Twelve , nearly thirteen , marketing: What the cost is ? project manager: yeah . industrial designer: Yeah , I think for the cost we want for the cost we want it's better to have   Let's see . So the di the differen the findings you know what you find inside the re i the the system here inside it is just , you know a bulb and an infrared bulb , so here for example the infrared bulb will be here project manager: You have the b the bulb , it is a blue the blue stuff here and the infrared and the infrared bulb it is the red stuff project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: you know and so and you have the other subcomponent that are not really here so important , so . project manager: What is this ? industrial designer: This is in fact some other component that are in between the electrical de the electronic device . industrial designer: So and the next slide , it is the last one it's So it's I think it should be wire wireless re remote con Because you know , it's easier to manage and you know because you f the b the the battery problem can hold you know will you use a battery or the a wire to connected you . Or maybe some kind of thing that we can have both , but you know , I at my side prefer a wireless . industrial designer: Okay , so if you have some question I didn't answer ? marketing: What's the average price of this technology then ? industrial designer: Well the avera the average prices I think that this technology will cost , I dunno , around eight Euros , so . Or at least you know , the user interface: So what , the wireless remote control ? There's a wire with remote control ? industrial designer: You'd yes , you can . It's so so bres you have to decide how how you will you know , put some energy inside , so you can think about wireless or you know it's it's a question that we can raise , so . project manager: So you think that  a cable between the remote control and the T_V_ won't be a good idea . project manager: No it wou maybe it will be cheaper I dunno , I just may maybe you making a solu marketing: But this is what you would like to ask the user first and I don't think the user would be ready to have a industrial designer: project manager: Yeah , user interface: Wireless remote control . project manager: but marketing: I don't think well , yeah , I don't think he would , industrial designer: Yeah , but some pa I always want to have you know , project manager: marketing: but in a sense industrial designer: sometime I want to have wire because you know . project manager: Yeah but as Industrial Designer , do you think that it will be feasible to have  linked or to have link between the remote control and the television ? industrial designer: project manager: I'm just asking you . Do you think it will be cheaper ? industrial designer: I don't think it will be too much . industrial designer: Have to think about the question , you know , 'cause it's I think that you know you can always you know project manager: Okay . industrial designer: I think wha wha with the wire it's  cheaper but you know the wireless it's more practical , so . Mayb maybe you have just to to kind of research or try to ask people if they will like something wireless or not . marketing: Now the project manager: So industrial designer: Yeah but , it should be an agreement , you know , because even if you can think of the wireless , it is it's it is the job of the the the g Graphical User Designer , but you know . If it is a lot cheaper and if you want to reach for example some the the money you have , if you want to use , so it can be good to have a wireless , it it is a question . project manager: I think it's would be easier to have a link between the remote control and the television , marketing: Well that's actually one of the point , yeah ? True . So just trying to answer all the questions , if the user would be happy to have something or something else  . We had one hundred subjects , we observe their remote control use in a lab and then after all the experiments they had to fill up a questionnaire , and see what was okay or not for them .  actually seventy five percent of the users find m the most remote controls  ugly , okay , so that's project manager: You mean the loo the look , the outside ? industrial designer: The look , how it look like . So this is where we could have  yeah , good market , I guess , if people are ready to pay more . And then  yeah , the remote controls like the one you've shown previously it's not so doesn't fit the user requirements sometime , because it's too many buttons and so on . And  users are actually zapping a lot , so they're using the device intensively , that's something to take into account as well . project manager: marketing: So this is from the experiments we've done , project manager: marketing: so if we could solve this problem this would be interesting for the user , I think .  it takes too much time to learn how to use the remote control for thirty five percent of the people . And  remote control are really bad for R_S_I_ problems for twenty six percent of the users . project manager: What is R_S_I_ ? marketing: R_S_I_ is like , when you're using the same  doing the same movement several times , then you get injured . marketing: Okay ? So , those numbers are less important then the previous one , but still it has to be taken to count . marketing: And definitely if it could have less buttons , still maybe the same number of  functions , but less buttons , user interface: Functions . And just to have  an idea , do you think you as the User Interface Designer to would it be possible to have less buttons and still have the same functionality and to have powerful remote control , you think it's possible ? user interface: Yeah . project manager: Yeah , but do you think it will be easy to use ? user interface: But I'm not sure project manager: Because if you have many functions just for one button it would be quite difficult for the user to know . project manager: I think the marketing: It's user interface: No you you can have a switch menu , so you can project manager: Yeah , but it has to be intuitive . Then for  you can have a switch menu , so you put the switch menu to it it tend to this kind of this category of functions . Okay , user interface: Then you you put the switch button , project manager: but user interface: then it switch to another category of functions . For example , if you have remote control you you can rem you can control your T_V_ and also you can control your  recorder . industrial designer: With a user interface: So there's a different functions , but i if you you there's a button you can switch between control T_V_ and control your recorder . project manager: Yeah , but user interface: But what I'm not so sure is about how to make the remote control look funny look fancy , not funny . marketing: industrial designer: This is a question that should be asked to the If you ask the people , maybe the the marketing people . user interface: marketing: Yeah , this is something we sh user interface: Because maybe a colourful is fancy for some people , but maybe simple and  uniform colourful is fancy for some for other peoples , so . industrial designer: I think the solution is to have many colours of you know instead of having one grey standard project manager: Yeah , but I think it will increase the price of the production of the remote control . user interface: Yeah , because maybe some people prefer a red remote control , industrial designer: Yeah , yeah , yeah . project manager: And also f user interface: Maybe we can have di di we can have  several options , marketing: Yeah . project manager: Yeah , but as soon as you speak about options , it means that the price increases , marketing: Yeah , user interface: project manager: and we don't really want the price to be too too high , because we wanna be able to produce it . So , we want something fancy , as  previously said , Florent , something very easy to use , powerful and also as  it's written here , seventy five percent of users , they zap lot , so maybe just having many functions in one button is not that good if you want to zap a lot . project manager: And they don't really want to zap between functions of their remote control , they want to zap between channels on T_V_ . project manager: So I think you have quite lot of points to to think about industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: So , is it okay for your presentation ? Nothing else to to add ? marketing: Yeah , it's done , just yeah . If we would if we could remember like , not too many buttons and make it look fancy , I think it would make it . project manager: So , I had some new information about the product requirements , so you will have to take care of it of it in your thinking , in your designing of the remote control . So the first one is that  for the designing of the remote control we don't really want to use the teletext anymore , as it's something that's user interface: project manager: It's is  marketing: Lame , or project manager: No yeah , because now everybody has internet at home , so it's better to use internet then teletext . project manager: So , you will have to think about it in your in in the design of your remote control , industrial designer: Yep . project manager: and also the remote control will only be used for television , so for y for you your designing , you're not you won't be  you won't had  buttons to just to manipulate yeah to control the recorder or maybe the garage door or things like that . project manager: It's marketing: - project manager: because if we want to to do remote control user interface:  . project manager: which will be used for for the television , for the recorder , for the camcorder and all the others , it will become too complex and it will increase the pli the price and we can't do that . project manager: So maybe it will be easier for you to to design it , to have very powerful and easy . project manager: And also we want the image of the   real reaction be recognisable in the product , such as the colour and s the slogan . project manager:  that's  if  you want to buy a remote control and if you go in a shop and if you see the remote control you will recognise directly that s it's our product . project manager: So you will have to use the colour of the product , of the   user interface: Okay . As we say , we put the fashion in electronics , so it has to be a fashion remote control . Yeah , 'cause what I'm thinking is how will you will connect the T_V_ to internet , so . project manager: industrial designer: This is marketing: I don't think it's part of the remote control design anyway . project manager: but mayb industrial designer: Yeah , but this this mean that your T_V_ would be able to , you know , connect to internet , you know , surf the web . user interface: A pi There's that box in the T_V_ , so with the set box you you can connect internet with your T_V_ . industrial designer: It's pop I don't think it's popular , so that's the problem so . industrial designer: the global usage , user interface: Global , industrial designer: so if people don't have the technology . project manager: So everybody is okay with the new requirements ? user interface: So I I so As as for the colour , what what do you think ? project manager: I think it has to be yellow . user interface: Yellow ? T_V_ remote control ? marketing: Min project manager: Maybe you can change the colour , but the image of the society has to be recognised . industrial designer: I think if you have you know th like a yellow ribbon here is the double R_ . Doesn't need to be completely yellow , project manager: So you have to user interface: Okay . It's okay ? marketing: Regarding the first line , what So we're just expecting no more use of the teletext .  Y you You will have as the I_D_ I don't remember what is industr Industrial Designer to put  pon marketing: Industrial Designer . project manager: And by the way , Mister David Jordan , please record your presentations in your own folder 