project manager: and we will have three presentations and we'll have to decide on the remote control concept and finally we'll close the decision . So I will first  marketing: No y you do the minutes first , or ? project manager: What ? marketing: No ? project manager: I I think I will let  our User Interface Designer speak first , Mister David Jordan . The second concept is a fancy controller ,  so we want give the customers the impression that our controller is very attractive ,  they can easy recognise our controller among a lot of products , so so the u the user f the the u user interface should be very very cute , very very g  industrial designer:  . industrial designer: marketing: user interface: Yeah , it's very , you know project manager: It's very big , user interface: if you're project manager: yeah . marketing: user interface: It's hard f i it's easy for you to remember it . user interface: so maybe we should  use   technology , such as speech recognition technology and gesture recognition technology , so we need to have coop some cooperation with some research institute on speech recognition and  gesture recognition . project manager: I just have one question , because for the intelligent controller , you said that we can use the voice recognition or the gesture recognition , user interface: Yeah . project manager: but as the  expert told us , most of the people want to use the remote control to zap t to zap between channels . Do you think they will be able to use gestures ? user interface: Yeah , so project manager: Because , if they do all the time the same gesture , as you said previously in the last meeting , maybe they will get injuries because of that ? user interface: Y marketing: industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: or if you say channel three channel three two three four six five , I think they will be bored after a while . You don't think so ? user interface:  I think some time it's very  convenient to use voice interface and gesture interface than use button . user interface: For example , if you cannot find your  controller , you can just  just just  speak something such as , yeah , one two . project manager: I industrial designer: Oh yeah , that's a good that's a good point , so . industrial designer: marketing: Yeah but how how is how risky is it to trust like speech recognition or gesture recognition ? project manager: Broken arm ? user interface: For limited vocabulary speech recognition is very reliable and for s limited vocabulary gesture recognition is also very marketing: Okay . project manager: Yeah , but suppose you have a family watching T_V_ , and if they want to use their private remote control in the same time , do you think it will work ? Everybody wanting to change channel in the same time ? user interface: Yeah . project manager: If you have one brother and one sister marketing: Yeah project manager: and they want to watch their favourite  T_V_ programme , marketing: Yeah , but the project manager: so they say oh channel four channel three channel four channel three all the time , industrial designer: Yeah but Yeah user interface: Yeah , it's very interesting . industrial designer: but the same can happen even with it you know this kind of remote control marketing: Yeah . project manager: Yeah , marketing: I don't think it project manager: but you have the remote control , so maybe you can keep it f with you . marketing: Oh , okay , okay , you mean it could be a problem for this kind of stuff . Even you h you have the controller , I can I can say channel three , industrial designer: It's it's marketing: No . user interface: so it's c come to channel three , marketing: No , but this is disadvant disadvantage . user interface: I don't have to project manager: Yeah , I think it's a disadvantage . industrial designer: And mayb maybe we can have the switching mode to pass from you know voice controller to project manager: Yeah , but one other question . marketing:  if you if if you use the basic user interface: No no we just  have some cooperation with some research institute , we don't have to do some basic research on this field . project manager: So you think it won't cost an Not a lot for us ? Or ? user interface: Yeah , I think it's  because  this technology is   for limited wor or limited wor  lexical recognition , it's very project manager: Yeah , but   user interface: it's  yeah . It's marketing: But it's it's changing how the remote control is gonna be built . industrial designer: Well y y you have also the language problem , user interface: No it's  Even for the f  because the the vocabulary the industrial designer: you know when you project manager: project manager: Yeah , but there is one problem that  Baba talked about is the international industrial designer: Yeah . If you want to go to England , it will be able to understand English , user interface: Yeah . user interface: Yeah , the key , the key  the key of our the key feature of our controller is that it's it has some some  adaptation marketing: Yeah , this could be downloaded by the web maybe , or industrial designer: Yeah but you know . It's It's it means when you when you sell this controller in China it's can recognise Chinese . industrial designer: It's a very smart , it's a very smart controller maybe project manager: okay . user interface: Yeah , project manager: And with no increase in the pri production price of the remote control ? user interface: it's industrial designer: Oh yeah yeah yeah yeah . project manager: Yeah , but how will you user interface: So industrial designer: Yeah but the problem is how to s you know if this is a push button controller , you can send this con this remote control everywhere in the world , the same one . industrial designer: because  the for example for Se user interface: Even for each f for even for different family we have to do d yeah we would we have to do adaptation to industrial designer: Oh really ? That's project manager: Oh . marketing: but then w Yeah , industrial designer: Comple user interface: No , it's not so complex . marketing: we have to take care of the twelve Euros project manager: And what about voice recognition , do we have microphones ? marketing: problem . project manager: And where will be they ? Do you think if we're far from television it will work ? user interface: No no no it's not I think that's n that's not a problem because you you don't have to wear a microphone . industrial designer: project manager: Yeah , but we're marketing: No , but then it's it's like this  project manager: here it's  an object . project manager: Yeah , but wha what is the use of voice or gesture recognition if you have a remote control li like this , if you have an object . user interface: Yeah yeah just you just put the controller here , then you industrial designer: I if you say one , he switch to channel , user interface: you use your command project manager: Yeah , industrial designer: yeah . user interface: No no it's n y if you lose it industrial designer: So well for example if it is somewhere in the room if i maybe if it is in the table there you can always say s channel one and the t the remote control gives the order to the T_V_ to switch to channel one . project manager: Okay you so you can build a kind of black box industrial designer: Devic project manager: and put it on T_V_ and just to recognize gestures and voice . Or is it do you think it should be only voice recognition and gesture recognition ? Or you you still have the possibility to use buttons ? user interface: think it we should give the  flexibility to the user and we think marketing: Okay , so you project manager: Yeah , user interface: yeah . user interface: No , project manager: And maybe it will be quite user interface: that's quite inter quite attractive . industrial designer: But I think that , you know , switching from one country to to another will be a problem , so although y y user interface: Well , if you do language adaptation , there should be no problem . marketing: What ? project manager: Which kind of controller would you prefer to use , you as a remote control user ? marketing: If if  ,  I'm sure if the user pays the same price , he's happy to have recognition . industrial designer: Yeah , but marketing: But if if if it like doubles  industrial designer: I think he need a control that is very reliable , marketing: no one would would be interested . project manager: So I think it would be better not to do any intelligent controller and to stay with the Google controller or a fancy controller . user interface: project manager: Just want to have something controller which is in a kind of intelligent controller , easy to use , sophisticated and fancy . You think it's possible ? user interface: Yeah but if if you stick to  stick to the first two parts . So what's the difference between our controller with other products in the market ? There's no k features of our controller , so is there is there any necessary to design new controller without any breakthrough features ? industrial designer: Yeah . No , user interface: Would y would you replace your controller with a controller with similar function if you do not have some some function inside it that marketing:  industrial designer: It's not really the we marketing: Y industrial designer: we can add for example some function like for browsing in internet , so or something like that . But  I think a user need user interface: Yeah , you y that's a fun that's not the function of the controller , that's a function of T_V_ . You can replace your T_V_ with a new T_V_ with internet browsing function , marketing: No , user interface: but marketing: but you need you need new remote controller then . Because if you wanna browse internet or , I don't know , if you wanna type something , industrial designer: Don't have a the the Yeah user interface: Okay . user interface: But it's not the only the problem only the issue of controller , it's it's also the issue of the T_V_ . industrial designer: Because the p the problem I can see with with the voice or the gesture itself wh what can happen in a family i i for example if marketing: Cause for example yeah . user interface: Yeah , but we do we do we we we cannot rely one hundred percent on these features to u to use the controller , marketing: Yeah . project manager: Yeah , but  we want so user interface: but with the features of our controller such as you have the feature of voice recognition in your mobile but you seldom use it , your mobile , but you when you choose a new mobile , you choose the one with voice recognition . user interface: the feature is not one hundred percent reliable , but it's a feature to distinguish our product from our from other products . project manager: Yeah , but w we we want something th that works all the time , every day , every hour , for everyone . industrial designer: And for all the person of the family maybe , user interface: Yeah ,  project manager: You don't need to tune it . user interface: Yeah , if if if if you're if you ar if you already have a product it works one hundred percent reliable , would you replace it with another one ? project manager: Yeah , why not ? If it's marketing: for example the goo y industrial designer: Because you have new marketing: you say we would we would to have a Google-like controller . marketing: I don't see how adding speech or gesture recognition would make the remote control look more like Google . marketing: so I I guess if can have a remote control that is really basic , simple and works fine , it's already a lot . marketing:  thi this  , the user is not only interested in having speech or gesture recognition user interface: The then nn marketing: or user interface: no . marketing: if he has something that works fine and is really fancy , looks nice and it's easy easy to use , easy to use . user interface: But the there's there's n there's n not enough motivation for them to replace their old controller with a new one if there's no key feature in the new controller . marketing: See user interface: That's the same marketing: That's the problem , user interface: yeah .  , I I know it's more interesting to develop a remote controller with speech and gesture and whatever . marketing: But you have to think , the user is the one who gonna buy the product user interface: Yeah . project manager: Two ? industrial designer: Yeah , participant two  project manager: Working ? industrial designer: Yeah , working design , user interface: industrial designer: so . marketing: industrial designer: So I think project manager: I can industrial designer: Can you go to the next one ? I  it's not this one . industrial designer: It's  oth the oth so I marketing: industrial designer: It's the working design . project manager: It's okay industrial designer: So this yeah so this is the described use project manager: industrial designer: What ? Are you inst project manager:  I think there's something wrong with your user interface: It did didn't r receive it . project manager: It seems that we have a problem with the marketing: I dunno if you remember what you had to say or industrial designer: I can say it to you without . project manager: Yeah , so user interface: Yeah , maybe we can first come to project manager: No , I think it will be more interesting to start with  user interface:  to Frahan . With Frahan , then you can prepare your slides , marketing: I think it's more interesting what he says , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: exac marketing: project manager: You will had s some more information in industrial designer: Okay . industrial designer: I s because i in my presentation I don't have here with user interface: project manager: Okay , never mind . industrial designer: so It was in fact the design use to show you the design of what is inside a what is inside and what are the different component of the r user interface: Okay . So it will be interesting so I could show you some some picture of what is inside user interface: Okay . So I in fact the the f something I want to discuss is which kind of material are we going to use , project manager: industrial designer: so will it will be wooden wooden di wooden remote control or a a plastic remote control like this one . industrial designer: so it can be some , you know , classic pushbutton like this one , or you have also some button like L_C_D_ where you know , the button the buttons are unlighted during the night , project manager: industrial designer: And the other thing I want to discuss also is which kind of alimentation , electric alimentation do you want to have , so will it be for example  d  solar energy alimentation user interface: -huh . And I think that for example for the alimentation it would be good to have  both of them , so so for example in some country where you are in the the countryside and you are far from , you know , the cities  for example in some place in in S Senegal , so if you have electric if you have solar alimentation , you just , when you want to have recharger or remote control power you just put it on the sun and after one hour you can come user interface: industrial designer: and so it can be interesting for people to have this kind of remote con It can be something interesting to make people buy it , for example . project manager: Yeah , I think it's an added value to the remote control industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: and maybe it can attract all the ecological k yeah consumers industrial designer: Ecologists , yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah . project manager: and but about the the price of adding this solar battery , would it be something really that will increase the price of production more , industrial designer: project manager: no ? industrial designer: Alrigh In fact , having them both will if we want to have battery , regular battery and and the solar energy battery it could be it'll it will add a little bit of the price , project manager: So . project manager: And what tha what about the  materials ? industrial designer: And the materials , it depends for example you if you have a wooden material it can be more the plastic material is more common project manager: Impersonal , industrial designer: it's very resistant but , you know , something wooden will be like , I don't know high cl so a special high class , project manager: Yeah . marketing: Special for industrial designer: or you know , you can have some project manager: Yeah , and i if you we want to put fashion in electronics maybe we can try to do something with wood . industrial designer: Yeah , even if it is not completely wood , but just a part of the , you know , will be wooden , in wood user interface: industrial designer: And so the last point is y also would do you want to have some very cheap integrated cir circuits , chips , or do you have low level or or very very expensive , it depends , but I think that low level will be , you know , it is an interim module . project manager: Yeah , we want something easy to use and so I think maybe something very low level wou would be enough . project manager: And you think that we will be industrial designer: Yeah , I think it will fit on the price we want , twel twelve Euros , project manager: Okay . industrial designer: project manager: And what about the buttons ? industrial designer: I think the buttons I pr I prefer , you know , the L_C_D_ you know lighted buttons because , you know , it's I don't know  yeah , in the dark , it's fashion project manager: No it's fashion , yeah . industrial designer: and it's related to how beautiful it is or  if you want to watch T_V_ in the darkness or if you want to lo find your find your your remote control that is lost , you know in the darkness it's very easy so , right . industrial designer: I think a touch screen will be t as expensive as the L_C_D_ buttons so .  , I think so , just Yeah , so just to meet the user requirements I would just do a s short anal analysis of the remote control market and to kind of  have a better overview of what's the fashion in general I've checked more than only the remote control market , so next . project manager: marketing: So again , it's pretty much similar to what I've said in the previous meeting . Like the one you've shown , David , with all the buttons and  i i it sounds good technically user interface:  . marketing: but it's it's not what they want and  So , second point is they still want it it to be technologically innovative , so maybe it's sort of related to what you've said with the speech recognition and so on . Wha what we really see this year is that  everything from clothes to shoes and furniture is is inspired by fruits and vegetables , industrial designer: Ah yes . marketing: okay , so I think we really have to take this into account for the design of the the thing . And then  if if we take the ordering or the ranking of all the points , fancy look and feel has , on a score of seven would have six as importance . marketing: So we see fancy look an look and feel is the most important one , and then if we combine this with the fashion  from Milan and Paris industrial designer: And fruit and vegetables yeah . And the other point I haven't mention is people wan want to have a spongy touch , industrial designer: Spongy 'Kay . industrial designer: Yeah , but the problem is which kind of material do you need to to be spongy ? marketing: Yeah thi this is this would be like  industrial designer: Pla S marketing: plastic-like , but rubber , mayb maybe , you know , rubber-like  industrial designer: Very stuff Okay , rubber rubber desi okay , yeah . marketing: Okay , tha tha that was the main point , I think , from the trend in fashion . So , as you say you want something technologically innovative , maybe using solar energy and with battery would be something interesting , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager:  cheap imprint so you s you propose low level chips would be  enough to have something working well . industrial designer: user interface: marketing: industrial designer: No wood but Plastic ? marketing: Maybe not no wood , but  ma maybe not the part you touching you know . industrial designer: Would some user interface: Pla project manager: Maybe you industrial designer: I think we can have wood for example in the bottom and , you know . marketing: But still y project manager: Th The feeling is natural , industrial designer: Yeah , it's natural marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: And it can be correlated to energy , solar energy , so for the marketing aspect , you know , saying that it's ecol marketing: Yeah ,  it's not exactly right for the spongy point of view . marketing: But we could maybe have both like part of wood and some rubber for the buttons , industrial designer: Okay . project manager:  and what about the user interface concept ? industrial designer: Google and project manager: Google and fancy ? industrial designer: and fancy , f how about the the voice ? And project manager: Because I think that with the voice and gesture recognition there are still some disadvantages with this . industrial designer:  maybe we can do some marketing studies asking people if they're interested user interface:  yes . industrial designer: But and the problem is I I'm we can infer i if you have v voice control why not to put it directly on the the T_V_ , so speak directly to the T_V_ and you don't need a remote control actually , project manager: Yeah , industrial designer: so . industrial designer: But it will be embedded on the T_V_ and not on the remote control , so . project manager: So maybe we'll just focus on the Google controller plus the fancy controller , marketing: I dunno . project manager: maybe try to mix them these two concepts together , just in one and do a remote control with solar energy and batteries and with lev low level chips and wood . project manager: Yeah , I think for these supplements the solar energy would be something quite interesting and not maybe too difficult to add . And pf what can we think a supplement to marketing: What interface ? project manager: Yeah , for the interface something added value . It is just , you know , it is not the most important , but it can be a part of project manager: With a module ? You mean the remote control with a mur module if you want you can just use industrial designer: Yeah , yeah . So the next meeting will start in thirty meeti minutes so we'll you will all have to work in in your direction . So you will have to work on the look and feel design , to have the easy to use , powerful and fancy remote control with some added value such as the  simple vocal commands recognition . project manager:  you will have to work more , Baba , on the  spongy way to to add spongy  touch to the buttons industrial designer: expensive buttons Yeah , to make some new project manager: and try to find maybe a nice shape for the wooden remote control . project manager: And remember as as I said last meeting , we really have to build a fashion remote control and  the colour of the  the society will be really it will be seen in the remote control . project manager: So you will have Baba and David Jordan you will have to work together on the prototype and you will have next time to show us  modelling a cl a clay remote control , user interface: Yeah . Yep project manager: And I think that some specific instructions will be sent to you by your personal coach 