marketing: What's the agenda for this meeting ? project manager: The I will  present here agenda with with with with slides to you . I've also made notes of the previous meeting and  I was about to send them you but then  I had to go to this  meeting so you will get them too  marketing: project manager: Then I hope you all have  worked out some some  some some presentations about  about well you the the task given to you in the previous meeting .  then I will  bring in some some some new requirements I I got  from the  account manager , I try to work them out , they were quite abstract , and we can have maybe have com some discussion about it . project manager: and Well in this meeting we should really try to reach a decision about the target group and the functionality of the marketing:  . industrial designer: You mean the social target group who we wants to target ? project manager: Yes  well yes w who are we going to  to well to sell this , marketing:  . So And then  we will close this meeting  user interface: project manager: and after this meeting we'll  we'll have a lunch . Maybe  why  Anna can you c do you have a presentations ? marketing: No , I don't . project manager:  you want a table to to  marketing: I c I can talk about it but I have no slides or anything . project manager: Yes yes maybe maybe you can  can just talk about it or maybe you can use the whiteboard if necessary  . Well I've just been  presented with some research we've done in a small focus group so , a hundred people , just asked them about their remote control usage habits and what they want in a remote control . It's probably can't email this to you , I've just got a web page with some data on it .  seventy five percent of users said they zap a lot , so they use their remote control quite frequently while they're watching television . Fifty percent of users say that they only use ten percent of the buttons , so they've got a remote control with a lot of functionality but really most of the time they only use a small part of that . project manager: Do you Do you have this  information on the web page you said ? marketing: I have an a web page yes . So basically  there's a breakdown of how much they use the different functions on a rem remote control .  , channel selection is used a hundred and sixty eight times  and then there's things like channel settings , audio settings , which are only used very infrequently . Teletext is used  fourteen times in the hour , so it is used but not nearly as much as the channel selection is used . marketing: An interesting thing that this report has brought up is that  fifty fifty percent of users report that the remote control gets lost a lot of the time in the room , so some way of some way of locating the remote control would be very useful to a lot of users . industrial designer: marketing: Thirty four percent said it takes too long to learn to use a remote control , they want something that's easier to use straight away , more intuitive perhaps . industrial designer: It's it's easy to learn or how do you say it's marketing: Thirty four percent said it took too much time to learn to use a new one . industrial designer: Not enough marketing: I don't know how we'd go about combating that . What do you mean there ? marketing: For R_S_I_ ? Respet Repetitive strain injury . project manager: But it's it's the opinion of the  of the users huh ? marketing: Yeah . marketing:  and then it's got a demographic breakdown on industrial designer: Maybe y y you cannot put this webpage online on the marketing:  I should be able to actually , if I email it to you now . user interface: You can disconnect it there project manager: You can maybe just just user interface: no ? marketing: Oh no , yeah . industrial designer: Ah it's it okay it's a webpage on the C_ it's a file marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: So these are important numbers that Matthew and I need to take into account for our functional  user interface: Oh yeah . It's probably easier if you put it on yours and then I'll just email it to you . industrial designer: Yeah these numbers have have to be have to be taken into account for the  both yeah user interface and functional design . marketing: One thing it goes on to talk about , which is interesting , is the hang on a minute . industrial designer: Because if there are many numbers and we need to select to to constraint  our design based on what is more important . industrial designer: Speech recognition in marketing: And who would pay more for that and whether people would find it useful . industrial designer: So that we don't Do we not need any button on the remote control marketing: Well potentially yeah ,  project manager: user interface: industrial designer: it would be all based on speech . project manager: Well it would it would be a solution for  when your remote control is lost , marketing: project manager:  when it has speech recognition then  i then it doesn't matter where it is , my well it's we should be in range , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: I'm not sure whether we will we can make this for for twelve Euro fi and fifty cents . industrial designer: And we don't know where the state of the art of speech recognition is , maybe you know ? user interface: Oh . Well , it depends you know like there is  it's a very small vocabulary that you want to do the operations like you want to say on , off , one , two , twenty three , project manager:  . project manager: Yes , user interface: It's it's going to be li project manager: that that that that's  . user interface: it's not going to be s so easy but u usually it's going to be more of an isolated case project manager: Do you have some more important facts user interface: but it's but I don't know with twenty fi marketing:  project manager: or can we go to the next presentation ? industrial designer: Okay . So marketing: Well industrial designer: you had to to to summarise maybe the marketing: This is now talking about  who would pay for speech recognition in a remote control , who would pay more for it ,  . Ninety percent of the fifteen to twenty five year old market said that they would pay more , it goes down from there , seventy six percent for twenty five to thirty five , thirty five percent for thirty five to forty five ,  twenty two percent for forty five to fifty five and then eight percent for fifty five to sixty five . marketing: Yeah , it really depends where we're gonna be targeting this product , user interface: project manager:  . industrial designer: I thi You us marketing: It'll be in a different window , yep . marketing: Another thing it's talking about there is the L_C_D_ screen but there's no figures apparently on that .  I okay project manager: Oh , industrial designer: I stay project manager: this is user interface: Now you can move I think yeah . user interface: It's a channel selection , a module , this and this function , marketing: Sorry ? Oh .  I'd like first to give a quick a very simple introduction , how does it work , so that everybody knows even if you don't have a very  technical background  what is it because I think in the product it is important . industrial designer: So basically  the basic function of a remote control is to send  messages to another system that is fixed . industrial designer: And so an energy source feeds an integrated circuit , the chip , that can compose messages , usually  through a  infrared bit marketing: So my method for  designing the yeah the work design  yeah first the the main point is that I would wish to to make a really functional product . I would prefer to have very functional  capabilities rather than fancy stuff that in fact is not used and doesn't work . industrial designer: So for that yeah as it's important to take into account the user requirements from the Marketing  Expert  Anna marketing: industrial designer: and  w to to we should agree on what are the technical functions  for this remote control and I show you the the working design .  we want an on off button , it can be  it's simple but it's it's important , and also  the to both channels as well as other buttons that come after , marketing:  . So the components I quickly draw here , is that in this part you have the remote control the the sender and on the other part the receiver so that's my method is  will be to well my aim would be to  design the and choose the chips and the infrared  components to build the remote control marketing: This is very quick  design ,  you stop me or interrupt me if  you don't agree on it on that . industrial designer: And  so what I have found and after a lot of work actually I I draw this I draw for you this  schema marketing: Well . industrial designer: that can be maybe too technical for you but is very important for me marketing: You drew it a long time ago ? industrial designer: you know . industrial designer: And  that's it so I won't go into details about that project manager: overwhelming . So project manager: are they cheap , or are they  reliable ? What were your industrial designer: found and yeah th you have always a compromise with  reliability and  i if it's expensive , project manager:  . industrial designer: but  this one was not this one also really  reliable  so yeah that's it for the working design ,  I hope you get clearer view on  what what a remote control is  in terms of  technical components project manager: Yes . industrial designer: but maybe yeah project manager: So user interface: But is it  can you just buy it on the market and f plug it in or you want to ma industrial designer: No no no no we we will  This is a preference but we can always change  project manager: What I w what I was thinking about  the the the schema  about  the sender and the receiver ,  can you can you get back to it ? industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: Yeah  , the receiver is of course already in the television and we are not  able to change it . We will use  infrared protocol  using yeah infrared and  and of course we need to adapt to that protocol that already exists project manager: industrial designer: and but we what we can do is   adapting the the chips inside  to the best  chips and  infrared bubbles . Of course yeah user interface: But you should be careful , industrial designer: in the chip you have it yeah . user interface: people are sometime becoming problem , like a guy has recently designed a remote    which could switch off any other T_V_s , so basically through all the things . user interface: So maybe we should think of marketing: industrial designer: Of course yeah we should take that into account marketing: That's handy . project manager: Yeah yes marketing: So if the b T_V_ in the next apartment's really loud , you can just turn it off . industrial designer: in the  user interface: Yeah so you can just go on the street and then switch off everyone's T_V_ and you can just walk away industrial designer: user interface: You don't have to be near the T_V_ at all . project manager: I I feel I I I think M Mael will will consider this  th these things . So  I'm going to talk a little bit about the technical function so wha what actually it's about what is the user going to do , I think my last presented what is going inside , marketing: user interface: so what's the user is going to see from the outside and how he is going to use it . So well the approach is that  basically the idea is to send a message to the T_V_ set , as Mael has pointed , and it will be decoded by the T_V_ and usually we it is easier to have  keys or buttons with which people can  press and then  changing a button will basically  change the message which is being sent to the T_V_ and   industrial designer: So p as  Anna has said that this ki people are interested in things which are you don't need to k press the keys , people are can have a speech recognition but this is  s a question which will we have to see later . user interface: But in the present scenario is that you have certain keys and you press it like your mobile phone , and it sends a message to the T_V_ . user interface: And  so generally  I don't have some figures sorry but  so there are two kinds of  remote if you popularly in the household , actually so you have a standard T_V_ remote where you have just a on , off button and play ,  volume change and  keys for the number and more than one digit option . And if you see for example righ right now   even the one  on more than one digit option is for two digit channel which is like ninety nine , but tomorrow you might have one fifty channels you know to browse or two hundred channels to browse who knows , but   . Then there is  this is the standard one with without any fancy thing you know like i it doesn't have teletext option , it can without any , it's a very simple thing ,  which which you can vouch . And then you have  what's the v video remote file which is like usually it has almost all the keys over there and , but it then it has other options like stop  and then you play the movie or  or fo fast forward the movie or something like that so i it has those marketing: And then well personal preferences I would  basically think of having a kind of aim for the next generation thing where the we could have both the  the f a T_V_ and the remote video remote control because  some of the keys in the video's remote control and the T_V_ they could be integrated together so that  we could  aim for the like in the f coming future  that type of  applications with marketing: Okay . How would that work ? So you've got say maybe a V_C_R_ and a T_V_ which are separate , user interface: marketing: so you on my one at home I've got a V_C_R_ remote which then changes the channel on the V_C_R_ and doesn't do anything on the T_V_ , user interface: Yeah . marketing: so is it gonna be like a switch on the remote that says t use the T_V_ or use the V_C_R_ ? user interface: Yeah . marketing: or does it know which one you want to use ? user interface:  actually  you could you could think of  having s a y you can have a key which could tell y it could go to the video thing marketing: user interface: but   yo you you you still can't  in that case when it you use that the function should be able to take up the V_C_R_ option marketing: user interface: and you could play it or You can also think about having like  I in a few days you will be ha in in few ye coming years you might even have a system where you have a separate  sitting setup box marketing: user interface: and  you have   something like   you do you do you suppose you are not able to watch some programme and actually it downloading all the time for you marketing: user interface: and  you can just you know  when you come back you could just switch on that thing and  watch a program . user interface: In that case you want to browse faster , browse slow , you want to have those kind of functionalities . user interface: It's the next generation thing , project manager:  yes , user interface: but it is going to come in couple of years . project manager: but I think it's i i it's already there , user interface: It's goi project manager:  the hard disk  recorders  I I've seen them in the shop . user interface: it's going to record your things and you and you you need basically the functionalities what you need in both   video as well as in the standard T_V_ thing . That's , user interface: No no we are not making a universal remote , marketing: yeah . user interface: we are just looking at  giving a scenario , I have a T_V_ and tomorrow I am going to have set up box marketing:  . user interface: which is going to sit there and  it's going to do that job for me . Because y project manager: W w w w we need to decide on on on on in how far we go to in this . project manager: Mean , you can go pretty far I f I think with with with functions and possible  future p  prospects marketing:  . So we can always discuss about it for example  the presently the video market actually  this demand , video over-demand or what we call it as , it's presently booming up actually industrial designer: user interface: so it i like people are providing like  things like   movies , you can select actually so you want to watch a movie and  your p your provider gives a list of movies , and then you select those list . user interface: and then when you come you want to loo watch it on your T_V_ . industrial designer: Or even you don't need to download it , it's streamed  online  yeah . user interface: Yeah it can be streamed online for you and you can say what time I want to watch the movie marketing:  . project manager: I have  received some some some some well points of of thinking over of my account manager and  I would like to share them with you . project manager: first thing is  teletext is a well known feature of televisions marketing: Do we include it , and do we give it a prominent  prominent  place on on on the on well huh on the remote mot control itself . project manager:  as  a in any case it's it's not used , well very much , but it's it is still used . project manager: further yes we must think ,  do we stay  to to television only , the television as we as we all know it with with broadcasting signals and you can't go back  huh , or do we   go further as Matthew indicated by supporting   recording  devices ? user interface: marketing: So D_V_D_s and V_C_R_s ? project manager:  indeed indeed .  , furthermore , w we need really need to interest  y younger customers and then with younger customers  people  below the age of forty , marketing: project manager: So industrial designer: So project manager: that's to that's  there's a market but  they will grow older older marketing: project manager: and you'll al always need to have the the future with younger people . project manager:  therefore , younger people like trendy trendy designs , so that's w we should make our our our R_C_ as trendy as possible but it should also be  have a reliable image , so when it looks too too spacey or too fancy people will think well does it work at all . user interface: Yeah it's  well you you can follow the ideas how you want to keep the keys , you know right now if you take it you have like zero , one , two , three like a keys separately , marketing: user interface: but suppose if you take the the present trend of mobile phones there are like big thick keys marketing:  . user interface: you press on the top , it takes one number , you press on the bottom it takes another number , and  basically   so the space covered so that you don't see two separate keys there actually industrial designer: But I think taking the idea of getting inspiration from mobile phones is interesting , especially if we're going after a younger market , user interface: Yeah so . Yes yes marketing: that's the the the  the new and the funky things , project manager: mo industrial designer: Because they are already used to that , you know , product . marketing: that's , project manager: Yes it's recognisable industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: yeah , there's lot there's lots of pretty mobile phones , not too many pretty remote controls . So , for example you have  presently  keys like one , two , three like this , actually , and   four five six like that and  you can have keys like this in form like  keys like that project manager: Mael can you hand me over this  ? industrial designer: Yes . How much longer have we got for the meeting by the way ? project manager:  well marketing: 'Cause we haven't talked about demographic at all project manager: I think fi five min user interface: Forty minutes ? marketing: and it's a very important issue . too sorry , so we basically don't change the  original order of them industrial designer: user interface: but then the keys are more spacious , marketing: user interface: they don't look  so there there is a very sligh thing , so if you press on the top it takes the one , it takes the three ,  four , sorry four here  five and six , marketing:  . user interface: so the keys can be it looks you know not very much cluttered but it looks nice industrial designer: user interface: but you can have a lot of options t if you press on the to project manager: Okay . industrial designer: marketing: basically we're trying to get people to buy a remote control user interface: Yeah . marketing: wouldn't they already have a remote control with their television when they buy one ? user interface: project manager: Of course they have already one . marketing: 'cause it's only a low market , it's a cheap-end remote control , we can't beat modern functionality , we might we'll be able to beat them on th the look of it , th the design of it but that's not a big seller , if they're not just going to buy a new remote control just 'cause it looks pretty , they have to actually need it as well . I well I think many people said  in your in in your research    the appearance of the  R_C_ is is important when they are buying one marketing:  . I've got friends who've got so many things they need a universal remote , otherwise they're using five different remotes for their all their things . marketing: In that case they wouldn't buy our product , because it doesn't give them what they need in terms of functionality . project manager: So your you think we should go for a more u universal high-performance marketing: Well , we can't , with the price range . project manager: What do What do you think about What componen industrial designer: Yeah we have yeah twelve point five Euros  per  per R_ s R_C_ marketing:  . industrial designer: and I think  with this now you know that chips are very  cheaps marketing: If we're getting into universal remote territory , we're getting to L_C_D_ screens and things like that industrial designer: that's marketing: which would drive the cost up a lot . industrial designer: Ye project manager: Is the L_C_D_ screen marketing: For universal remotes industrial designer: I don't think L_C_D_ is not necessary well , th for long term . project manager: I think thi this could be this could be a market because  universal remote controls  tend to be  quite expensive . marketing: And quite complicated to use , project manager: S so we can try to go in between , marketing: yes . project manager: but but still but still people have the idea this is more functional than a normal   R_C_ industrial designer: Universal . project manager: marketing: But if we're going for the say fifteen to twenty five age group then not many of them would actually own T_V_s to use a remote control on . project manager:  yes but w we're targeting I think on more on the on the twenty to forty group . Who just have or already have a job and have the money but may not want to spend that much money on a on a universal universal control . Are we gonna be at the very bottom of the price range , or are we kind of middle to bottom ? I don't know . project manager: I think  when we think it over I thi I think we are trying to offer the a kind of universal control for for less money . project manager: So d Do you agree ? user interface: Well Well I it's fine with me like the price as long as it is  not too expensive . industrial designer: Yeah user interface:  and it d  Our provin industrial designer: because we have to take into account that we are gonna b we are gonna sell  four aro around four million so when we speak about these numbers  the price of a chip is  price of a chip is very cheap . industrial designer: So I'm okay for designing  a ne  less yeah a a kind of universal  R_C_ yeah . And  basically you can look to the standards of other industrial designer: Yeah that's needed , yeah . So I guess what I'd like from a universal remote is maybe choosing between three devices , being able to switch between them , there may be stereo , V_C_R_ and T_V_ . marketing: And just be able to s use them all from the same remote , but not at the same time . user interface: Yeah you can also browse through all the standards you know , where are the limit of standards for all of them and you can just browse through them . project manager: So given we are going for this   universal type  m maybe it is good when you try to find out which components you therefore need and y you will try to get more specific  user interface content industrial designer: Yes . project manager: and  maybe you can look on on what trends are in this  in this type of market . user interface: and we'll I'm sure we'll up something good marketing: project manager: W yes , user interface: for the project manager: we  we can have lunch now . project manager: So  Then th th the next meeting will  user interface: Yeah so we meet in well what are our project manager: after lunch you have  we have  thirty minutes of work and then we have the next meeting 