industrial designer: project manager:  so in the last meeting we have discussed the functional design and now we will talk about the conceptual design . industrial designer: Okay so I think I will do my presentation on the components concept so can you please  open  I'm participant two . project manager: industrial designer: Okay so  the first thing  I have done is to to made a review together with the  manufactural  department and have which components was  available to build a remote control . So for energy sources we have we have to choose between the solar energy , hand dynamo and  kinetic  well  kinetic  technique to to store the energy . user interface: marketing: industrial designer: We also  we also can put a regular battery in the in the remote control . But if we use battery industrial designer: Yeah b  f well  I meant  by by battery I meant  I will not have a  a wire between the remote control and the energy source but  I didn't fou we didn't decide yet which kind of battery we will put inside the the remote . But  well it's not a a re  well a real issue for the from the technical  point of view . Concerning the interface  we can we can put  just simple buttons or scrolls or buttons  much more complicated , but it also requires that the chip to process the button is more complicated so . So what I have f found is that I think basic battery or kinetic  energy  collection is the is the better way to provide energy because I think solar energy wi won't work in a cluttered   environment . For the case  well  I think that  titanium is  is a good choice because it's trendy and it's  it's  well it's modern and  user are are are  will be  very happy to have a a a nice remote . For the interface  I think that we can ach achieve  all the desired functionalities by s just  using  rubber buttons , simple buttons and th thus this allow to use a regular chip that are  well cheaper . user interface: What is this single curved what does it mean ? industrial designer: Well   i i it's  it's the the shape of the  of the remote . user interface: So it's it's not industrial designer: You you will have the well  the the curve will fit into your hand when you grab the user interface: Yo l yeah . And the battery , is it kind of a rechargeable or it doesn't matter ? industrial designer: Yeah the  that's the point . The kinetic one is  y you can recharge  by the  user interface: That that's what it means by kinetic . industrial designer: Yeah and by well by just by moving the ar  your arm the  well the remote will  accumulate energy . industrial designer: But I d I don't know it's if it is feasible because I don't know if yet if if the user will move enough to provide the remote  all the necessary energy . We we might check with our R_ and D_ department to see if they have this product ready for market . Wha industrial designer: So  you're right we can  see in our  R_ and D_  if the kinetic metal is sufficient to provide enough energy . industrial designer: Oh yeah user interface: industrial designer: I take care , it's all right . user interface: So the titanium case is the normal case that I'll show you some pictures that I have and you tell me whether they are titanium case or not . There's another point I want to make , is that the  well you've seen them I le na my presentation that  I point out some why buttons are not the  not the only ways you can use Yeah . So the user interface is  i it uses the aspect  of a computer system , a programme which can be seen or heard or otherwise perceived by the human user project manager: user interface: and the commands and mechanism the user uses to control its operation and input data . So you s this gives you the ways to input data and we have  we are more we emphasise more on the graphical user interface here . The idea is to represent buttons as figures , diagrams , symbols and on so you you can easily when you look at the symbols you understand what it is doing . user interface: So some people are propose voice recognition and so ah by the way I receive an email from the from one our departments saying that the voice recognition has been used in the coffee machine for this by a company industrial designer: user interface: when you tell the you say good morning coffee machine and the machine are reply to you . user interface: And it seems like this voice recognition technology is ready to be used so we might consider that , supposedly .  so somebody some people use  some people use a spinning wheel th with the L_C_ display so instead of using the  buttons you have a L_C_D_ screen and then there you can u you can use that as buttons , you can use that as real so so that could be an option as well . So s basically this deals with special users , children , handicapped people , old people , and   and prog basically they are programmable , specially for children . And then they also secure  covers , to protect  secure and hidden programming and battery covers that will protect your settings . I'm just saying that the currently in the market there are there are control there are remote controllers f customisable for different people . So the adults might wanna have a key to lock that to pr so children will not touch the button inside . But for our product we don't need a big one because you have voice recognition e eventually with use . industrial designer: user interface: T_V_ remote controller where are you ? project manager: user interface: And then , he will beeps and to say that I am here , for example . industrial designer: project manager: We should include speech synthesis in this case , no ? user interface: Is it possible ? industrial designer: Yeah . user interface:  ? industrial designer: Yeah but  as Norman say if  there is  already a commercial product available who t who do this we we can check  to integrate it i into our  new remote control . And  , this is another one where you can  the the the part that's a V_ standing for the volume . But you the see that in the V_ , the V_ appears to be the down arrow on the top on the top up arrow if you project manager: user interface: up arrow there's a V_ like as as if it's turning down so it's confusing interface , so I wanna avoid this kind of thing in the design . user interface: And here are is  here is a s short summary that I summary that I compiled after the findings I found . Big buttons are convenient , voice recognition helps , push buttons , scroll buttons , spinning wheels can be used as navigation tools . user interface: And basically  industrial designer: Well I I think you it's it's it's fine you have  reviewed all all the possibilities user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: but   well  i if we consider that  the user interface is displayed on the T_V_ screen I don't think we nee  we need much buttons in the remote project manager: user interface: industrial designer: since we we just have to navigate and to have a okay or enter key or things like that , user interface: Yeah . project manager: Or maybe we can include the user manual in the in the remote control and we should have just a button like help and you say  and you ik you press the button help and maybe you see the the user m might in the in the T_V_ . So wi marketing: But people are often enough looking at the help , project manager: If the if marketing: once they see the help button they say oh this is a complicated stuff . industrial designer: But  wel well I think project manager: It's just for user customizable , for kids or old people . project manager: So marketing:  it just showed us the remote with an cap which could be used for kids and if you remove the project manager: So it's the same marketing: Same remote with some project manager: Can be used by both kids and old people . Well  what I s propose is that  you know a remote controller , i it could be a cube , industrial designer: user interface: is  a small device that  looks like a cube and maybe you can just change the  the buttons , if you ch turn one side you get one one buttons , you turn the other side you get the other buttons , so for maybe new generation people who get used to the computer they want lots of controls . project manager: Maybe for kids , kids they like  t no l they like to user interface: Small industrial designer:  well . project manager: marketing: So we just made an marketing survey of what people need from our remotes and how it could be special from the other remotes . So seventy percent of the users , they find their remote controls very ugly , they don't find it pleasant to use in the size or usage or anything . And eighty percent of the people they are always l  they are willing to spend more money if the remote control would look fancy . marketing: so the rest of the ninety percent of the buttons they're not used most of the times . Most of fifty percent of the time the remote controls are lost somewhere in the room and people are always searching for them rather than watching the T_V_ . marketing: So they're frustrated a lot user interface: marketing: And  if the remote control is too complicated it takes much time to learn the functionality of it . marketing: So you can just see the percentage , fifty percent people they responded that they always lose their remotes and thirty four percent they say that it's quite difficult to learn if it's too complex . marketing: So keeping in view all these findings and the frustrations I think this should be the solution for them . industrial designer: Well  w well I I I don't really see the advantage of having  L_C_D_ on the on the remote control if we have a a a big screen and  display on the screen . industrial designer: It's marketing: - ? industrial designer: yeah of course it's fancy trendy and so on but it's it's expensive to produce and it's not really marketing:  as our survey says that people are willing to pay more if their remotes are fancy . marketing: So if we have a L_C_D_ on the remote , rather than looking onto the T_V_ you just look into a remote and navigate it . The thing marketing: We just play around industrial designer: Yeah but when you play with the iPod you don't have a big screen in front of you , s project manager: You can use this screen instead of the big se screen , user interface: Yeah . user interface: If you re-use the existing screen , we element eliminate the L_C_D_ , after all the L_C_D_ just to display project manager:  . user interface: and if you have the colourful screen you can make the display colourful , fancy , as fancy as the one on the L_C_D_ , marketing: Yeah . marketing: So industrial designer: So I th I I well I think we we can focus on the  on the fancy look on the  user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: but well I think L_C_D_ will  will  make us spend a lot of money for not so big results . So i is marketing:  yeah we have  project manager: user interface: so the thing is you can find out how much an L_C_D_ will cost and then we'll decide again . project manager: industrial designer: user interface:  maybe you can find out the price and tell us next time . industrial designer: And marketing: And it's always good to have an voice recognition for the remote controls . marketing: the scroll button , from the survey we never see that people would like to have some scrolling button . Yeah I think that marketing: Because they they just they're just frightened to use the scrollings or help button . industrial designer: Yeah I I I think that  well  as we have seen in the in the presentation  well  about   fifty percent of the of the percent n choose the button user interface: Don't use the buttons . But project manager: But they are just less used compar marketing: They're not used much . industrial designer: But the  the thing is is i is that we can add a functionality on the on the T_V_ screen user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: and then you choose with the with the button to well you navigate user interface: Yeah , yeah . industrial designer: and you project manager: Or maybe we can u  or maybe we can  make this the ten percent of button more bigger than the others . marketing: industrial designer: But if i i if we if we could have a a a display  g a user interface that is very complete on the T_V_ screen I think that just five buttons are sufficient , user interface: Yep . marketing: Or it could be like this , as the people say , if they have a L_C_D_ on the remote not on the television . Because when you have the L_C_D_ onto the television screen you miss the picture in the background , we are most focused on the commands . industrial designer: Yeah but marketing: So if you have then L_C_D_ in the remote , you just have a menu , and increasing and lower these signs here to change the programs and this menu when you press the menu , in the L_C_D_ displays as you go on pressing the menu it faster displays volume , then the program , then the brightness , contrast and all the stuff . industrial designer: Yeah but if you look at the L_C_D_ you you don't look at the T_V_ screen marketing: And accordingly you can just increase or decrease . industrial designer: so i i it's not really worth to get to have the image if you don't look at , so . project manager: And I think it's increases the cost of the the remote control if you use L_C_D_ . user interface: I think that there's no contradiction here , because if there are few buttons , you don't have to look at your your controller any more because you know where the buttons are , so if you wanna control the screen d sh sharpness you just say sharpness industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: and then you t turn you just press lef increase or decrease button industrial designer: user interface: and the same for the volume and the channel , marketing: Yeah . user interface: if you had the speech recognition there you just shout your channel , just tell your channel and then you don't even have to look at the butto at the controller so finally that wil eliminates the the need for L_C_D_ , marketing: Okay . user interface: with the help of speech recogniser you can marketing: better if we could just check all the cost with L_C_D_ user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: Well so we we can think about a well a a vocal command like  find user interface:  . industrial designer: and when the remote control  hears fine well yeah just  to make him beep or t project manager: You will listen to a peep , special peep . marketing:  it's always boring to change the batteries of the remotes control , user interface:  . marketing: so we have some one charger there and whenever we don't use the remote control we put it in the charger . marketing: And when we're using that t remote and if we misplace somewhere , in the charger we have a small button , and just by pressing the button in the charger the  remote control beeps , wherever it is . marketing:  it doe it also doesn't require a voice command , project manager: But you don't you don't have to move the the charger . user interface: That we can what we can do is we can program a function whereby when you press the switch off T_V_ button , the off button , the remote there be s  instruction on the screen , please charge charge me . user interface: because  every time you're off the computer the T_V_ you are asked the the command the T_V_ com remote controller would tell you to put it back to where to the charger . user interface: So it's it's  it's all about strategy , y marketing: And of course the final point is a fancy look . marketing: As we have seen earlier the remotes which were displayed by Norman they weren't fancy , user interface:  . marketing: I think we should have something it industrial designer: Well the last one with the  yeah with the two parts was  original , so user interface: With  two two two parts controller . marketing:       you see if it's like that even a kid who wants to have a control he could just plug it and use it , you can't avoid him . marketing: So just by pressing the button with some code , you t you put a lock onto the remote , so that he can't use even user interface:  . industrial designer: Well we can think about  having  on the on the on the user interface when you switch on the T_V_ you can  well write a code or choose a category , if it is kids ,  things like that . project manager: Or maybe you have to to show some specific programmes for kids and then just just yeah just push  kids button so it's automatically user interface:  . marketing: I think these other four points they're the market demands and so it's for the user interface design and industrial design to just think industrial designer: So for  project manager: Yeah . So for my part I will check the prices the  the prices difference  of what to use , where to use , and s  and so on . marketing: Yeah I think it should be clearer for us in the next meeting that th  these could be included . I think we need to define also a s the set of vocabularies for the speech recogniser industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: because  if you want  say we can sort by channels or sort by T_V_ programs , you have to decide a category of vocabularies for them . user interface: but if name the channel by by name industrial designer: Well I think we can we can have just numbers for channels and you can say to your remote control like  sports and then on the T_V_ you have a list with with   well with sports program playing now user interface:  . You see  if you have a voice commands and you are s you are watching a score on  basketball score or something , and if the score comes twenty four thirty five , you've just say twenty five project manager: Yeah it's yeah . marketing: So I think there should be a prefix to some numbers industrial designer: Well but well e every possible word  has a probability to come about of the T_V_ so . marketing:  the the you just check all the probability that saying T_V_ twenty five and just ordinary twenty five . marketing: Ordinary twenty five you almost there's a probability of being said around sixty seventy percent user interface:  . marketing: and T_V_ twenty five I dunno it will be round about one or two percent . user interface: But I I I think that the user would like wou would like to associate the channel or call the channel rather than than the numbers . user interface: You say numbe channel number five of the T_V_ correspond to something else in the channel . user interface:  ? project manager: Because you have to s t  a ch user interface: Well , it's convenient for the user . marketing: Then project manager: Or maybe the user can create his own vocabulary , user interface: The    . user interface: I I think that I have   I think there's another way you can do is that  you can  if when the user ch press a button to choose the channel for example , then what you can do is that the you can make the T_V_ screen to split them into small little little squares of images where you you you have a snapshot of every channel , so let's say it's a four by four matrix of the images , so now what you do is f looking at the all the sixteen channels available at one time , you just use the control button  , you just you you just choose the the option you want marketing: Yeah , the . Just you have  in the beginning you have  t you have to train you have to create the vocabulary by yourself . industrial designer: Well I  I also project manager: By associating each channel with the name or industrial designer: I I also think about  another problem , if if there is  more than one person who is watching T_V_ project manager: And for each one has his own . user interface: industrial designer: the s well the the speech  r recogniser should be able to distinguish between the two . industrial designer: Because  I remember when I was a young child with my sister we yeah we always want to w to watch different emission at the at the same time user interface:  . project manager: Or you have to s user interface: Yeah , I wanna watch this , I wanna watch that . industrial designer: so it's a pr it could be a problem if  if well if someone passes by when you are watching T_V_ and say oh T_V_ thirty and just run , s user interface:  . If we are using the television in the different environments , say in the factories or in the shops where there is a lot of noise and this voice commands if they fail to work , that would bring a bad name bad  reputation for our company . marketing: So I think we should specify some pre-requirements if we want to use a voice commands , say that it should be used in an silent homely environment or s something . industrial designer: Yeah that's well I think that's a good  a good option because it's simple and  simple to implement also , so . industrial designer: marketing: Oh it came there on three minutes back so we are I think we can just press the okay 