So we have forty minutes to discuss and  finalise and close the product and project and to move further , okay , so Okay , let's talk about  maybe first  for the prototype . project manager: So I handle to user interface: I've done a presentation , but it pretty much covers work that we've both done , so if I'm missing anything , Christine can just correct me . user interface: It's not the biggest PowerPoint presentation in the world , but industrial designer: marketing: project manager: So in two or three or industrial designer: user interface: Three . industrial designer: marketing: user interface:  okay , can I have the mouse ? project manager: Yes . Alright , so from when we were discussing specifying the case in the last meeting , we decided that we wanted an ergonomic shape , the material that we chose was wood , and  the colour would be customisable , 'cause you can stain the wood whatever colour .  , so in terms of function , you have to be able to turn the T_V_ on and off , volume and channel control , menu control , voice recognition control , and we've incorporated the L_C_D_ screen on the flip panel as part of the design , if we figure out it's too expensive , well then you just take it off . marketing: user interface: So if you lift up the panel , you can see the lovely yellow L_C_D_ display . The yellow button you have is the on off button , so it's really big , hard to miss . And then you have the numeric pad in the dark blue at the bottom , and on the right-hand side you have the access to the menu on the T_V_ , and on the left-hand side you have the the the ability to turn off the voice recognition . industrial designer: Yeah the d user interface: Additional feature on the back is that you can have your own customised backing and I suppose you could do the same thing on the flip case on the front . That depends on the  s design of the circuit board inside and  what room is left  user interface: Yeah . project manager: I think the microphone is on on the top ,  on the middle , the under the flip . project manager: So that will be the safe , so p any the chip it's not on the chip because you need to have microphone to industrial designer: No ,  it depends on the design of the circuit board . user interface: But it shouldn't be under the flip either , because you can have the remote control closed , but you still might want to activate it by voice . project manager:  it's it's Yeah , but   my opinion I think it's better under the flip because whenever you want to  the talk , okay , so then you can speak then you can close it . But if you put it on the on the flip , okay , then  technical I don't think it's  feasible , 'cause most of the time you speak then it will be recognised . user interface: But if you've already got the remote control in your hand you need to open the flip to use the voice , why use the voice , why not just use your hand ?  the whole point of the voice is that if the remote control is sitting there and I'm too lazy to reach over and pick it up , I can just use my voice . industrial designer: Maybe I've got my hand in the popcorn bowl and I'm holding my cup of Coca-Cola in the other hand . user interface:  it doesn't have to be on the flip , it can be on the side somewhere . user interface: marketing: No , because y you can easily put a microphone on the side that would have no problem would haven't been not be damaged or anything , and it'd be accessible all the time to voice . S I'm fine , I'm satisfi user interface: And maybe the shape of the buttons , project manager: I'm satisfied . user interface: the little egg shapes aren't the most economical , but industrial designer: We're glad you're satisfied . project manager: Of course it's it's it's looks more heo heavy , but I think when it's completely maybe it's a less weight . But And part of the thing is m a lot of people say that they don't like something that's too light , because they don't feel like they have enough control over it . user interface: So  maybe this is excessively heavy , but I think it needs to have some weight , project manager: Yep . marketing: project manager: So any comments or  marketing: Well , the prototype is is very well within the design and ideas that we've we've talked about on the previous meetings . marketing: Now it goes into this next phase as the financial  marketing  project manager: Yes , that  So I'll come back to the So evaluation criteria , I think  that will be good , so then let's come to the finance  , I have some  calculations which I made  as for  the budget .  it's optional , somewhat optional and Ed wants the chip on print , that's what  we were talking about that . industrial designer: project manager: So then we have sample sensor and sample speaker , then  we have the wood material , then special colour and push button . So it's  actually , our budget was  twelve point five Euro , but  it's coming to nine point nine five Euro , so we are under  below the budget , okay , so still we are saving some money . marketing: Well we haven't come to mine yet , so industrial designer: Oh , okay user interface: industrial designer: . It's gonna cost a long way to c you know , cost a lot of money to market it , is it ? marketing: we're gonna have a bit of difference of opinion , yes . project manager: So maybe it's for some money we can utilise for our  marketing , for the sales , okay , and  marketing: Well , it just depends on if we're gonna add a o on this pr provisionary cost analysis , we do not have a L_C_ display . L_C_ display is gonna be very expensive , user interface: No we do , but it's not filled in . marketing: We don't have the price up there , user interface: Oh , yeah , yeah , project manager: Yeah . marketing: okay , so if we add approximately two to three Euro per remote , now we're up around about twelve , twelve and a half as to what  the company had initially  requested .  industrial designer: So that means we can put the  the L_C_D_ in , yeah . But as far as production  I'm putting up a question because we're talking about profit also , and in mine you'll see  the problem with  our survey , the p the possibility that how many units can be sold , what percentage of the market , etcetera etcetera because that has to be taken in into consideration . project manager: marketing:  this is just production cost , it is not  advertising cost , it's not transportation cost  project manager: Yes , so still  we have twelve point five Euro . marketing: And that will inflate quite a bit the cost of the  the cost of the unit for the company . marketing: So to come up with what the company wants is a fifty million Pound profit , we're gonna have to go a long ways . This we are talking about one unit , okay , so when it go into the quantity , okay , and the cost will come down . industrial designer: Although customisation , because this is being done , you know , the on on-order basis , it might be  the the quantity won't m won't  marketing: Slightly . industrial designer: the circuit board will b you're right , would be in producing quantity , but the cost of the case would  be fixed at the  you got some pretty cheap labour that can do this case for one Euro . industrial designer: That's really that's the cost of the material and lab wow , that's really outstanding . But anyhow , still we are under control , okay , so what  I will do is I will try to negotiate with the vendors , okay , to get  the production cost less , okay , so then we can save some money , okay , to put into th our marketing or  you know the promotions , whatever , okay , so that  I will look after . project manager: You're in four ? marketing: Yep The four gives me it's gotta be  TrendWatch . marketing: It shouldn't be user interface: That's no , I think it's the same one . marketing: Although since  we need to have some type of idea on a market  we had independent study that says it this this market has an availability to absorb eight mi eight million units per year . Okay ? Our internal company evaluation puts it between eight to nine million which is approximately the same as the independent study . Which means that  if we have a target of two million would the company has to take twenty five percent of the market in the first year , project manager: marketing: So , if we put an inflated price of fifty Euro at a production cost that cannot exceed twenty-five Euro , okay , we're already in that that price , okay , project manager: Yes . marketing: with transport , promotion , labour , because we hav gi included the promotion in the cost , transport for the material to the stores or whatever how however we're gonna break this down between our our retailers . At two million units , we have to have a profit of twenty-five Euro per unit to get to the fifty million unit Eu Euro profit . marketing: Okay ? So , obviously we w w I just did a run down the evaluation of the form , the fan  the fancy stylishness of the of the unit , the ease of use , speech recognition , cost , we've gone through these . Now , the company must evaluate the feasibility of being able to take enough of the market to justify in production . Or we project this over two years , but being that the market changes very very quickly , maybe there's no more interest in buying this thing in eighteen months from now . marketing: Can it sell it for fifty Euros ? industrial designer: Could could I go to findings ? project manager: Yep . industrial designer:    I would  like to explore the possibility of using  alternative  delivery and sales channel which would be  to use the internet for promotion and ordering project manager: Yes . industrial designer: That way you have no storage , you have no  you do have transportation , still have the labour cost , user interface: user interface: That actually makes more sense if we're gonna make it so highly customisable , 'cause on the web people can look at the different options they have , see maybe what other people have done , what the range of possibility as , industrial designer:  . user interface: whereas if you're in a store , you can't unless you're a highly imaginative person , you may not really know what it is you want , industrial designer:  . user interface: whereas on the web , if you have a bunch of pictures , it can sort of trigger ideas and industrial designer: And you can even have an a movie that you can rotate the object and look at the di the only thing that you're missing really is the weight . It's not quite like trying on a shoe , but people are getting used to buying things online that they can't touch before buying . You can customise a watch , you can see how it is at the f at the end of the production , industrial designer: -huh . marketing: you can change it  There's a lot of online that's that is doing this now . marketing: And when you're rotating , you'll look behind and look this way  it's possible to do with this , maybe there's a possibility of selling more than two million units in one year , which could you know , feasibili feasibility  lower the price of the unit . project manager: I don't think that's  not possible , it's  okay then , l  let's wait for the production , okay , then  you can evaluate the product , so how it looks like technically and  how it look like  the real . user interface: What turnaround time do we have ? project manager: T user interface: 'Cause  production evaluation can be very very quick or very very long . industrial designer: In  We probably should do some market tests  once we have the prototypes and do some orders and things like that and test-market it . marketing:  that'd have to be thrown out on the market for people to get an idea , project manager: So you can take a minimum two weeks to a maximum four weeks . Think minimum two weeks if we're gonna develop prototypes and then try to take them to different places and see how people use project manager: Yeah . project manager: Yeah , because we we are not going to do it in  our factory , okay , so we can give it a product evalua user interface: No no . industrial designer: project manager: So we'll do it in the other place , and I don't think it's take more than four weeks time . Or  Okay , so then the real production we will start once we product evaluation , okay , then  it's approve from  the technical team and  your team , okay ,  from the management , then we can launch in the market . Hm ? industrial designer: Any outstanding ? project manager: S Any any other  questions or  comments to be discuss ? industrial designer: No , I'm user interface: What ab industrial designer: go ahead . project manager: Okay , so then  industrial designer: Did you have something ? user interface: Well I was just wondering about if we're gonna do a product evaluation then what about time for redesign if the users come back and tell us no this is bad , this is bad , we want this done differently . industrial designer: project manager: So no more changes will be made , okay , in this the basic design . Okay ? So we will introduce m this model and  let's introduce in the market and let's take the feedback from the customers , then we can  go for the industrial designer: Second generation . industrial designer: user interface: The problem is there might not be a second generation if the first generation flops for some silly reason that we haven't thought of . Well , every customer , okay , they have their own ideas , they have their own test , okay , so there's no end , there's no limit . user interface: No , but there's a difference between releasing a product that has been minimally tested and fine-tuned to suit a general range of requirements versus releasing a product that we think will work but we don't really have anything to back it up . project manager: Yeah , so that's the reason you are here for  the design , okay , I hope you made a good design . We have our own motivations in mind , we have our own ideas in mind , but that doesn't mean that that's what's gonna sell . project manager: Yeah , but  see , we ought to take a few considerations , okay , one is the price consideration , one is future consideration , okay , like  you can eat  you can all eat more chi I can eat more chilli , okay , so i it's a depends on the individual taste , you know , industrial designer: project manager: so we have we have to balance somewhere . I'm just trying to point out that I think that your evaluation and redesign turnaround time is too short well you have no redesign not you personally , but in the project we have no redesign time and project manager: Yes . industrial designer: Ed , d do you know what season of the year or time of the year is the most important for T_V_ remote control sales ? marketing:  . marketing: they need those things that they have their hands g occupied and they need to be able to talk to the con remote control . industrial designer: maybe what user interface: industrial designer: So I think what we need to do is perhaps to synchronise the final the the launch of a user-tested device with some special event . industrial designer: so that gives us a little more time perhaps then we anticipated , because I don't know when the World Cup is , but I'm sure there's gonna be one . industrial designer: but , so , I'm just ig  pointing out a  a strategy to  do some additional user testing project manager: Research . industrial designer: or  perhaps to  also user interface: That's actually good place to advertise it too . industrial designer: There might be some motion pictures that are coming out  that are coming out on D_V_D_ that  they need to have a m special remote control to work with it , so we could maybe work out a campaign with  with Sony Pictures for example . user interface: It's just something to to keep in mind , 'cause it's really really important . user interface: A lot of products have gone out there without being properly user-tested and completely flopped , when in fact it gets re-released a few years down the line with proper testing and it takes off like crazy . user interface: Really ? industrial designer: Yes , it is one of the first consumer products that was launched about thirty years that was a disposable consumer product , user interface: That I didn't know . industrial designer: and  people the market hadn't really gotten on to the concept that you could use something and then throw it away , 'cause it wasn't  user interface: industrial designer: but then when they re-launched them thirty years later , they were virtually the same design , project manager: . industrial designer: but people had gotten the throw-away , you know , paper cups and napki y all kinds of things that they hadn't  so , you're right , timing is very important , user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: You look very relaxed , considering h you know , the  the weight on your shoulders , yeah . user interface: project manager: Okay , so then  let's come to the closing and  are the costs within the budget marketing: Celebration . Okay for  but our time being , so thanks for all your efforts and great work and  great design and  let's leave it to the Ed for later for once production is over and the meantime let's celebrate . user interface: Thanks industrial designer: user interface: project manager: And see you in the evening for drinks 