Well , of course we're new to each other , so I'd like to get acquainted first . So let's do that first ,  Let's start with you , can you introduce yourself ? You're our Marketing Expert . And I will see what the user wants and  what we can do  with the new produ project product . industrial designer: My name is Xavier Juergens , I'm the Industrial Designer , and there are three main questions that I have to find an answer to today . First one is  what happens inside the apparatus , second is what is  the apparatus made of , marketing:  . So , our new project is about we need design a remote control for television set , so , which has to be original , trendy and user-friendly . It's We're inspired by latest fashion , not only electronics , but also the latest trends in clothes and interior design . Everybody has  a piece of individual work and a meeting afterwards , so we can share information about So I'm gonna keep this short , since we had a technical problem . Every meeting we everybody can present their  their views and everything , so to help with these , you have we have the SMARTboards here . I'm supposed to give you an introduction on this doodling board , so it's actually it's very easy . And so it will be easy just to illustrate your views , if you wanna change the format , you just either take out jus just like the pen , and whatever you want , your current colour , your line width , just to make the line bigger . We're just gonna keep using this board all the time , so I think it will be it's very clear for everyone , I suppose . Yeah , just just just stuff that you wanna share , just put it in the in the project folder , like I put my presentation now . I'll put the the minutes of every meeting , I'll put them there too , so everybody can read up if they have to leave early or whatever . user interface: Well , I'm more into the technical aspects of drawing , industrial designer: user interface: so I'm not really good at drawing animals , project manager: Draw us a technical animal . industrial designer: project manager: user interface: This thing isn't doing what I'm What I want . project manager: marketing: user interface: I'll just finish up real soon , because I'm marketing: user interface: So it doesn't really look like a dolphin , project manager: Anyway , user interface: but then again , this is all new for me . project manager: it should It It's supposed to be a dolphin , you like the freedom that it that it represents . Do that in my spare time , so that's basically an project manager: What do you like ? Okay . It's big , it's strong , so   Oh , it's a little bit user interface: It's not really that responsive , no . project manager: user interface: You picked a hard one , didn't you ? industrial designer: My drawing skills are really bad , so . project manager: marketing: What ? They are industrial designer: They are really bad , my drawing skills . industrial designer: I'm not sure how the legs should go , but project manager: industrial designer:  these are stripes . project manager: What does it want ? industrial designer:  well , basically  it hunts for prey , but it does it always in a very well-thought way . industrial designer: And it always goes for  security , in seeking   a hide spot and  and doing everything , marketing:  . So marketing: project manager: I'm just too lazy to draw it all black , so That's the coolest ant ever . user interface: You've done this before , haven't you ? industrial designer: project manager: I love to draw ants . You're supposed to make i make it different from  from what other people have , and just make it a little distinct . Well I guess we have a little little time extra , but Just a little quick discussion to to open open our work . What are y What are your first ideas for the new product ? What user interface: Well , I basically had a question . Do  Are we going to introduce a multi remote control ? Is it just the T_V_ or do we want to in project manager: The project I got was just for a T_V_ remote control . marketing: But user interface:  thing to keep in mind is that we need to stick to what people are familiar with . user interface: No rational changes or whatever , 'cause it revolutionary changes , project manager: Okay , so very intuitive design , I guess . So that was something I wanted to add , project manager: user interface: and perhaps some usability aspect . Do we want people who are disabled in any way to  , yeah , to be able to use it as well ? project manager: Yeah , we want I suppose we want almost everyone to be using it . So I think  , really disabled people , yeah , might be a problem , but I think it's a little take it into consideration . industrial designer: Only one thing  that has to be added according to me is  the the material it is made of , it should be something light . industrial designer: That's it speaks for itself , project manager: It should be light , okay . project manager: What do we This Quick What we're going to Selling price , twenty five Euros . Do you have anything you you came up with yet ? About  marketing transfer , whatever ? marketing:  about what ? Marketing ? project manager: Marketing I'm not sure what you what you came up with yet . You have anything to share ? Or else we'll cut the meeting just cut the meeting short marketing:  no , not really yet , project manager: since we're supposed to stop . marketing: and I will  say it  project manager: Anyways , the the personal coach will give you the your p your personal assignments and everything 