I just thought marketing: What was it , problem ? user interface: it didn't work anymore . industrial designer: user interface: project manager: Welcome to the conceptual design meeting industrial designer: marketing: project manager: for Real Reaction .   , and at the end ,  I  , when I finish it off I have some  input from  a master class I  visited . project manager: industrial designer: project manager: The the the the the concepts on  we  where we  must reach a decision on .  , the first one is  really about the the the the the total package  with  Well , we have decided to do a do the  with a touch-screen that must be a case around it so  it won't be   as breakable .  how how about the energy ? Can you  can you reload it or  just have batteries which you must exchange ?  , the user interface concept . marketing: project manager: At the end ,  I will take notes  and at the end of the minutes  will  be at the shared folder . marketing: industrial designer: what I did was I reviewed previously used items  by  two two  different  age groups . And  I just  watch what the differences are and I checked  , well , what what d do we want , and how can we  d aim a at  the target group . Well  what I found was that a senior  project manager: industrial designer: senior citizens  marketing: I'm sorry . industrial designer:  They , well , they like more the they like the traditional materials , like wood and and such more .  ,  they they they they like luxurious  styles , where whereas the young and dynamic , they like a more  soft materials . project manager: industrial designer: soft and fluffy and colourful and marketing: industrial designer: Well  , shapes are curved and round . project manager:  a soft material for a remote control ? industrial designer: No , I'll I'll get to that . industrial designer: But  the two basic sources that I found were the best possible were the battery  versus kinetic . I figured , well that's ki kinda high-tech , when when you have a remote control that well , when you pick it up , it has power . industrial designer: Well , we could also use a battery , that's a bit marketing: Yeah but when the power gets low , you have to shake it or something ? project manager: user interface: industrial designer: Yeah . Or you can go for both ? user interface: Oh , have you considered the option of using a solar panel ? industrial designer: Yeah , I actually did . industrial designer: and you you could you could use normal light , but  you wouldn't get the same amount of energy that you would from a battery or something . industrial designer:  for  ultimate b  n  use of  solar panels , you could actually use  you could use  solar panels , but  you ha you'd have to implement them into  the remote control , leaving you  a bit less space for the interface . industrial designer: So  so i i it it wo what's actually I I c just in f I've figured it out that well ,  seeing that you'll always be  within the l  distance of T_V_ , and the from T_V_ there comes a a a whole bunch of light . industrial designer: But , well you just take up all the space , and you wouldn't  have the full amount of power actually used . project manager: But you prefer kinetic ? industrial designer: So I I prefer kinetic because it's  well , the costs aren't that much higher , and  , ju just a bit more high-tech than than a normal battery . industrial designer: if No , but  d Well , you pick it up and you press buttons and y well , you project manager: And that's enough to to keep the energy level  industrial designer: Yeah , well  actually it is . industrial designer: And it it if it isn't , you just shake it a bit and and add add with power up again . industrial designer: But , what l what Jarek said , you could you could use a battery that you'd just keep it on the recharging whenever it moves . industrial designer: And so that   well , user interface: industrial designer: f furthermore , you you we  checked  the cases . You ha I you sim  you simply add a basic  standard  model  it was kind of square and  I figured that's a bit boring .  , single curve , it's just a well , you know , it's just  a nice curve . industrial designer: That gives you an whole new  effec project manager: Dynamic dynamic look ? marketing:  . industrial designer: Yeah , that gives you a younger and  more high-tech look , I f I figured . marketing: But , are you going to draw it ? industrial designer: What ? user interface: Th th yeah . industrial designer: And then  in three-D_ effect you could go user interface:  marketing:  project manager: industrial designer: So y you you just Yeah , this is a this bit  difficulty in marketing: user interface: industrial designer: I didn't take a major in art . So But but you could have   a whole new  the back back the the the depth , you could you could  just play around a bit with . industrial designer: but just a Well , furthermore ,  well ,  plastic versus rubber ? You We could choose  what  what's better , plastic  or rubber . project manager: That's the material the younger people want  , ain't it ? user interface: industrial designer: Yeah , yeah   plastic  is Plastic also has that cheap feeling to it , like plastic  Your your I usually associate plastic with  something that's cheap . Well , we discussed it in a previous meeting , so I figured I'll just leave it at the L_C_D_ . And  chip set , well  if we are going to use traditional buttons , we could go  with a simple chip set . But  if we decide to go on a n   L_C_D_ screen , we would use an  we have to use an a advanced chip set . If it isn't  manageable  budget-wise , we'd have to go over to  to sim to simple buttons . So  I bet a big company in  Korea or Taiwan , like  Samsung , can give us  a big discount on the chips , so industrial designer: user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: Yeah , probably , but But  yeah , that's that's marketing: So That that shouldn't be a real issue , I think . I'll I'll I'll just add ,   I put a big summary here , so we could discuss it a bit .  what i what are your ideas concerning battery versus kinetic ? marketing: user interface: I think you should use kinetic as a back-up . project manager: industrial designer: Yeah , well Fifty cent  user interface: industrial designer: why doesn't And then we have single-curved versus double-curved . industrial designer: rubber ? user interface: isn't possible to make combination with kind of rubber is or bendable remotes where you've got a . industrial designer: You user interface: Or do you think it industrial designer: I figured it will be m rather than hard user interface: Rubber casing , yeah . industrial designer: because well if you use an  d a touch-screen ,  it's just a casing  around it . user interface: is it possible  of is it necessary to make a touch-screen square ? It isn't , I think , yeah ? industrial designer: Well , m I don't know . user interface: We're We put fashion in electronics , industrial designer: That isn't user interface: so maybe we can  marketing:  ? Yeah okay , but if you have a square  L_C_D_ screen , and you put a case around it that has  like bulbs or that that covers part of the L_C_D_ screen . industrial designer: So    so  so what are the opinions ?  rubber or plastic ? I I I prefer rubber . project manager: Yeah ? industrial designer: Yeah , you too ? user interface: That's good . user interface: Well , as long a as long as it's it's  it's firm , and you don't  it's not bendable or something , project manager: marketing:  yeah . industrial designer: Yeah , it it shouldn't it shouldn't flop over when you hold it in your hand  project manager: Okay . industrial designer: No , that that that that's gonna The the chip set will hold it firm in place , marketing: user interface: Okay . industrial designer: and  and and  and a L_C_D_ screen also user interface: It might even bounce back when you drop it on the floor . marketing: industrial designer: tra  traditional versus L_C_D_ , well I figured we we all set on that . Well I figure if we go for L_ L_C_D_ , we we should have the advanced . user interface: industrial designer: marketing: Okay  Last week project manager: marketing: I went to  Paris and Milan for some trend-watching . In Paris and Milan , we  asked different people ,  differing in age and in income ,  the amount of money to spend ,  what they like in design  and material nowadays . industrial designer: Well , the Teletubbies sh project manager: marketing: You wer you weren't in Paris ? Okay . Okay , our secondary audience ,  people above forty a forty years in age , they like the dark traditional colours .  Yeah ,  materials like wood that project manager: Yeah , but wood is not a not a material you which you build a a remote control of . industrial designer: marketing: The that isn't wood anyway , but Okay ? But , that's our secondary audience . project manager: Would you prefer   that you can choose the colour of your  remote control or marketing: I'll I'll come to that in a second point . industrial designer: project manager: marketing: Here , think about removable covers , as seen in mobile telephon telephone market . industrial designer: marketing: Like the Nokia  the removable covers ,  just put a red on it and go to the shop and buy a green one . So  to come back to your question , I think  and the people in Milan and Paris also think that  the rubber should be pretty hard . The phones and the project manager: industrial designer: Well , I actually saw a phone that you could use as a remote , so Yeah . project manager: marketing: in my second sheet of personal preferences ,  we have to reconsider the speech function  recognition . project manager: So that you say  S_P_S_S_ , and it goes to  marketing: Yeah , like something . marketing: You you can see that the market is just screaming for new technologies , like speak  speech recognition and stuff . But , we have to keep the cost in  in mind , but it user interface: Twelve fifty  marketing: Yeah , it it can be  very expensive .  project manager: Yeah , but you don't use that th games when you watching television , I think . But you don't use games when you're d when you're making a telephone call . user interface: When your parents are watching some boring program , you can take the remote and do something else . Well , I do that , but Okay , and  project manager: industrial designer: marketing: And third , I stick with it , the log-in functionality  with the slogan , take parental control to a new dimension . Well that's a just simple PowerPoint mock-up I want to m make it more as dynamic for you so I'll draw there . So if you press  system , that's marketing: user interface: Yeah , well m multiple system options can , maybe five or ten or or one , can fit in . Or maybe even a step further when you want to  t  have some other options that are not programmable with one horizontal button . And  well , how do  do we want to look at   f  Yeah Does a remote look Well , it's you've gotta hold it in one hand . So  the middle like all remotes have to be in a little bit small , so you can put it in inside your hands .  One thing you've gotta keep in mind , keep the remote clear of too much functions at the same time . project manager: user interface: know that if you are changing the menu structure here ,  And well , I still believe you should keep displaying the buttons . But if you're programming the colour of the T_V_ , do not display twenty other options that are possible . Do not have to select a screen first and then brightness and then colour and un-plus , and  push plus twenty times . And when you get to n to  to ten , ye and want to go back ,  well you have a problem . Just m most most modern T_V_s , you you press one zero , and it goes to ten .  , what do you think about a back-and-forth come-up  button ? project manager: user interface: Yeah , yeah w Yeah , I I find I must trying to  tell it . marketing: But if you go from two to eight , and you want user interface: Or if you're watching Studio Sports on  on seventeen , and your wife is watching some soap on two marketing: Yeah , and on two . user interface: And if you're using that button a lot of times , well of course the menu will still be displayed on the screen . But if you're really switching between two channels , you won't have time  to d use the other options . project manager:  I think we can discuss a little about the the three  kind of revolutionary things  Tim  came with . marketing: industrial designer: project manager:  industrial designer: project manager: There's n not  too much decision on  that one so  I think that parental control is a good function to  to put in the remote . marketing: Yeah but What I see  How I see it is you put it on the the remote and then you have like a Windows log-on screen with parents , children . marketing: And w when you want to use the parents  option , you have to user interface: It it has to be fast . You don't want to to go down and watch the news at eight o'clock and turn it on and wait twenty seconds for for  the log-on screen and then remember your code and all kinds of settings . marketing: Yeah , ok project manager: No but I think most people  find it  much more important that their children don't watch  sex or violence  on the television , and  wait  ten or fifteen seconds longer , so they can  finally watch it  because of that . You c may use like when there's  X_P_ ,  a simple log-on , d you just push  one or two or three . user interface: And if you push parents , then marketing: That then then then you have to  go to three-digit  log-in . user interface: And if you w you push p children ,  you don't have to  log in , but you can only watch  children's channels or  marketing: It automatically goes Yeah . Well industrial designer: I don't know if it's worth  the time and effort we are going to spend on it . Because well it's a simple function , but it's gonna take a lot of resources and a lot of time  to programming it . And I'm not sure if it's actually worth  investing that much time and effort into it . project manager: Well I think that's a b there's a big market for it , industrial designer: I don't know what project manager: because  you Yeah , you read many times in magazines same kind of stuff , and you heard on the news that  that he Yeah , they believe that children  are influenced by the television , industrial designer: marketing:  yeah . But there are a lot of  people will below forty who have  children in young age  who who want  to  not watch  violent or  user interface: Yeah . user interface: Just make through a remote as it is , but make an option to insert profiles , project manager: Yeah . user interface: 'cause if my grandad would buy this remote , he wouldn't want to bother with all all the all the  things to do . project manager: That's a that's a better idea ? marketing: Yeah , w It just has to be w when it's deliver out of the store , it has to be just simple and plain . marketing: But if you want to install it personally  If I got kids , and I could choose between  two remote controls . user interface: You're thinking about some channels they  cannot see , but well , I I when I think , oh yeah , for the f for all the standard channels , and only for maybe after ten o'clock  in the evening violent films and movies  will come industrial designer: marketing: user interface: and  maybe maybe some some timing  will be  needed instead of  of channels , marketing: Yeah . user interface: because if you're watching  , I don't know , you're in the at day  , cartoons will come up m on maybe Friday night . But maybe there's some option that  that t  the kind of show view numbers are violent , and that they are blocked out . user interface: Yeah , the disadvantage vantage is that someone will has to send all the show-view numbers of the programs that they remotes and edit it all , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: But , well , if you want to I i i if we in incorporate  the parental control ,  let's say we do , and and well whatever , cho  child just goes up to the T_V_ and presses up for instance . user interface: Well , yeah you could say if parental control is only it it'll go from fourteen to sixteen with the page-up then , but industrial designer: But that Well , I'm not sure because  for that to happen , you d you will have to receive a signal from the  remote control , so it would , yeah , have to be constant  constant signalling . industrial designer: What m what may be better is to incorporate an  a separate device that  that you can program with the remote control . So there's n that's there's  besides  the remote control , you'll have a separate  project manager: I wouldn't put it in an optional device . industrial designer: Yeah ? project manager: If we do it , we we must do it in a kind of ways that like a profile , a parent profile , and a family profile , and otherwise . marketing: And and you know w  when you install another device ,  children can still go up to the T_V_ , p pop open  the thing and and and g project manager: Yeah . But industrial designer: But , only difference is  the  the people buying the remote control will now get the f added feature of parental control , project manager: industrial designer: and those people wouldn't  necessary want it . And what do you  guys think of the games in the voice recognition ? I personally think that that becomes too much . user interface: Yeah , well yeah , I project manager: It's more like it gets you to the functionality , but user interface: A mail too from management that it's very popular to use voice recon recognition . user interface: But I don't think when you're watching T_V_  , hearing loud noises from the T_V_ , someone screaming one , and you f the channel switches ,  Yeah . project manager: That would user interface: As long as it's isn't a primary feature of the remote , marketing: That that doesn't c that doesn't co user interface: but  marketing: Yeah , that that doesn't cost a lot of extra resources , I think . So that will  that that that must be in it , you think ? industrial designer: Yeah , that will be nice . And the parental control are user interface: Optional in project manager: optional ? marketing: Yeah , it's it's in it . But too ma I I think so , but user interface: But how we do it ? project manager: Yeah . user interface: Well , I think also it's a good idea , buts very difficult to incorporate . user interface: Is t some menu  function , you choose parental control , and maybe four files will emerge from menu where put it on .  , but  will there   Like the first idea  from  You can buy it without and  with parental contr control ? Or are we going to put it in and  just  user interface: marketing: To put user interface: You can put on marketing: Yeah , to put it in always . And you can just  s when you buy it , you can select  personal preference , parental control on , and the password or something . I I figure if you had two different remotes , you could bo choose one with  well   a receiver in it . marketing: Yeah ? I thought they were just project manager: Yeah , you yo industrial designer: Yeah , you you have some T_V_s any marketing: a able to receive . user interface: Well , maybe you just have to restrict it to what programs , where the parent says , you cannot watch channel seven , nine , and ten , and you cannot watch all channels after ten o'clock . industrial designer: Well yeah , you could you could easily you could easily you could easily to the mote control . But , on the T_V_ user interface: Yeah ? marketing: at least my T_V_ , is a is a compartment which you can press . marketing: And there are buttons  behind it which you can use , if you d if you don't if you don't have a industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: Yeah , you could you could you could go like user interface: or make it ourselves very diffic industrial designer:  that that would actually make  things a lot more easy . industrial designer: I'm not sure what marketing thinks about it , but marketing: Or j Yeah . user interface: marketing: Ah project manager: marketing: I have to  consult my legal advisor about it . So  I think we have decided on the things that  from Janus , the energy , the combination between battery and kinetic . user interface: industrial designer: project manager: The case will be double-curved and  rubber , in a fr flashy fruity colour  that with cover is removable . project manager: Yeah , but you have that in the user interface: What I was thinking about is just a menu structure , when you don't use it is simple . You use the user interface: And when you push  system properties ,  entire list pops up with e ev all kind of f stuff you can program . industrial designer: Well yeah , you you could actually build in a function that you can program it yourself , for the more advanced users . Because you can you can like build in a back-forward button , and  some po somebody would just want to watch two channels . project manager: We take it to the other meeting , okay ? I have a little w  little chat to do marketing: Okay . project manager: I went to  a master class and   two things  are  are  can come in handy  for us . Knowledge engineering and   the fact that  that  that the idea of knowledge ,  sharing and learning knowledge from other companies is  like that . marketing: project manager: It's it's  very hot at the moment , marketing: project manager: so it's it's mostly for the management expert to to look what other  marketing: Marketing . marketing: Yeah , that's my function , to industrial designer: project manager:  W user interface: marketing: Okay . project manager: What other companies  had to  also with the the the the marketing campaign when they put on a newer remote , just some  Yeah . project manager: they're a ha they're at Yeah , benchmarking , that's the word I saw . marketing: project manager: I  couldn't  Okay ,  another  thing is  there were there there was a survey , and   it came out that  people like to buy things from a single large provider , instead of those who  are partnering  with us . So , we must  we must bring it as if  Real Reaction is  is big company ,  a trustful company , and  it has m marketing: How I know a marketing name for our product . project manager: I had a I had another idea to put   the whole the whole idea of  Real Reaction and    a single brand and   that kind of thing . marketing: - ? project manager: When you  put on remote , you see a kind of a just like when you telephone , you see a little  animation . user interface: marketing: Yeah , okay , but it has to be like a split second , because you have to put in a code also and project manager: The user interface: Yeah . But w th the idea from this  thing is that we must present it as a as we are a a single large provider who will stand on our own . industrial designer: Well , if you if you have the l L_C_D_ screen , you can you can  have a small logo i  at the bottom . user interface: Yeah , I It's ok For f project manager: That's what they said in the master class . user interface: Oh , for the next meeting , right ? industrial designer: marketing: project manager: N  , next meeting starts in thirty minutes . marketing: Who who gave you the master class ? project manager: The master class ? marketing: Ronald Betenberg ? project manager: Franz Mehler's . industrial designer: project manager:  idea that you  the the industrial  development  centre and  user interface  will work together on a prototype . user interface:  industrial designer: So we're going to work together right now ? user interface: Stay here and project manager: Yeah , the well ,  dids this what I  what I heard . project manager: But keep an eye on your  laptops for a real  industrial designer: Yeah ,  I'm not sure if we  we Because I saw something about individual actions . project manager: Yeah , but th there's there's still the my  instructions that you will work together 