See , shall we wait ? I'm not sure if he's late or delayed or whatever , so I'm gonna start soon , we have now don't have much time anyway . project manager: have a little thoughts on what your vision is and on this project , so I put the minutes on the I made on the on the p the the project share , so if you wanna review them , they're there . I will do so after every meeting , so if you have some information you wanna take back you can find it there .  after that I got some new project requirements from project board , so we're gonna go af go after over this later . marketing:  there was a little problem with my computer so not  the whole  presentation  project manager: Anyway , let's see what you have . The the method we used  it it's not m not a slide , because it went wrong , but the method we use  ,  we tested it w  with  a hundred  men , and we asked them to w  what the remote  f feel  like and  what what's  important .  project manager: If I can cut in , is it people or men ? marketing: People , project manager: Is it people , okay . project manager: 'Cause I thought it was only men , marketing: Both women and men , project manager: so marketing: yeah . marketing: Yeah , and yeah , most th th they want to spend money for a better system , for better remote control , so we can do  a l a little  nice things with it , and  they use yeah , they use zap a lot ,   fifty percent say they only So that's the most important things . marketing:  oh yeah , not all of it is it on mine on my PowerPoint presentation , project manager: Okay , just talk ahead . marketing:   they use it , but it's not  very  important  on the scale of zero to ten they six and a half  project manager: Okay , that's okay . user interface: marketing: and but not important is the channel selection , the the  ? project manager: That's a little weird . marketing: Oh , user interface: Which channel selection ? marketing: the the no no no no no , that's very important , but  w and not important in the audio settings , display settings project manager: Okay , marketing: and  project manager: we can we can hide those under a menu or something , user interface: Oh , okay .    beep to find your control , was project manager: That's like a button on your T_V_ ? marketing: that was in the test , the the most people  f find it  irritating  when they cannot find a rem their remote control , project manager: Remote , okay . marketing: so  I think it's a bee beep to sound it and  you can find it . And another thing  they want was  speech recognition  so they can say  what they want to let's go to channel one and  that's  kind of things . marketing: And they want maybe an  L_C_D_ screen  to to look it  wh what's on every channel  and  what do I want with it ? user interface: project manager: We wanna have a little preview on the remote control .   my personal preferences is  a button for my favourite channel , so I can  I dunno , so I can zap to my  f  quick  to my favourite channel wh what I  so , the remote mu must see or  must  see wha what mine preferences are for which channel , project manager: Okay , you don't set it yourself , marketing: so I can zap t to project manager: it just remembers the channel that you are on most , for example . marketing: What ? project manager: You want the you want it to be programmed , for example y programmed f marketing: Yeah . project manager: Let's see , you you spend twenty minutes each day on that channel , marketing: Recognise project manager: so it recognises your favourite channel . project manager: Okay , so it's it it does it recognise itself , you don't have to set it marketing: No , project manager: Okay . marketing: the computer  crashed , project manager: No problem , it's it's okay , marketing: so . user interface: It sounds really easy , what does the user do , what does the th remote control do , but there are quite some issues . So the things I'm going to concentrate on are the user aspect , because the technical aspect , that's pretty much covered . Where is the remote control ? We've all had it once , I want to watch some television , marketing: Yeah . user interface: where's the remote control ? That was one of your ideas which you posted in the network folder , marketing: Yeah . user interface: There's nothing more annoying than faded symbols , because you don't know which channel is this button , so possibly we could find  something for that , project manager: Okay , so have it more make it more durable actually . So you press more once remote control goes kablouey or something like that , project manager: Okay , so the buttons should be user interface: so we have to pay attention not to put too mun too many buttons on  the remote control . user interface: So this is basically what I h had in mind in the fade-proof symbols , locator , a sound ,  so clear we should stick to existing symbols , but maybe we could do a little  investigation to see whether some symbols are  need to be replaced by others . So what we want to go to is not this one , project manager: Yeah , it's true . user interface: This is not the final design , project manager: No , of course  user interface: this is just a general idea of how I'd like to see  basically the general idea . So we agree on the the part that we need to get something on the on the remote to find it somewhere and increase it the durability of of the thing , user interface: Yeah , I think it's a really good idea . project manager: The other aspects , we'll just see how what you came up with and what's possible for that budget .  if it should be programmeab grammeale then we need  something like a mode that you can switch it . industrial designer: And  how big is the remote control  going to be ? I'll tell you why that's important to me .  there are a lot of technical parts in the remote control , so   that's why I also would like to say  go a little bit easy on the designs ,  I heard ab  you talking about beeps and about  video screens , but  the material inside and the technical aspects are quite complex already . industrial designer: So keep in mind that everything that you keep  think of , it has to b to be built .  that is how it is done and all the remote controls work that way , I think we can just go on with that . industrial designer: Exactly , so if we make a circuit board with the the connections already on it , then that's cheaper . project manager: So you have industrial designer: This is what look like  looks like if you press one button , so this is not the entire thing . The switch    if you p press it then some electrical charge goes into the processor , that thinks over a Morse code , that's how you should see it . You have infrared and an interv   how to say it ?  a light in indication , light that you know that it's functioning . industrial designer:  here again , that's my story about the different modes , if you do want to make remote  universal , then the processor has to  make up a different Morse code when some button is pressed . That makes it much more complex , so we really need to have a look , do we want that or not .  I don't have any personal p  preferences  so far , except for  the materials to be used  light , that they are light . Like you said  teletext is not not very popular anymore because the  the internet , nowadays people don't use the teletext anymore or hardly , so it can either Well , I don't think we should remove the button , because there are always people who are using it . project manager: But I don't think it should be very it should be one of the big buttons for example .  we're targeting young people now , because our  This is a new product and with this new product we want to appeal to younger people , marketing:  . project manager: that's also good with the fashion and everything , marketing: B project manager: so yeah . marketing: Yeah , and they want to pay for it project manager: They want to pay for it , people are willing to spend money actually to buy a  remote that they like . marketing: and  project manager: If they like the way it looks , the way it functions , so they're actually gonna spend  spend money on it . marketing: in the project manager: see how far we can go with it anyway , so marketing: Yeah . project manager: And one thing that should be important is that the corporate l colour and slogan are recognisable , which is apparently black and yellow , but I'm not sure if we I think we should keep the the logo in mind , because with colours you can  have a lot of  fashionable colours and everything on it , which suits everybody's taste . So With that concept I started thinking , so why not just steal Nokia's idea and just make changeable covers for your user interface: Oh . project manager:  those cost hardly anything I think , and people could even spend extra money on buying a cover industrial designer: Yeah . That's just a little marketing idea that could be applied , so you can p it appeals to really everyone . project manager: So that was that was my idea on what we could do to appeal this product to everyone . project manager: just I'm not sure if you came up with anything in the meantime , after making a presentation . industrial designer: But marketing: But oh ? user interface: Is it manageable ? Is it easy ? industrial designer: Go ahead . marketing: Yeah , with with an L_C_D_ screen you can project manager: Oh yeah . I think we should lose the L_C_D_ screen , industrial designer: Y Yes , I think so too . I think for example it's it's huge I think the L_C_D_ is huge , user interface: Yeah . user interface: And it costs too much to fabricate , project manager: It costs a lot , I think . industrial designer: Okay ,  project manager: What we could do , what could be possible , is maybe not an L_C_D_ screen but with a preview , marketing: Okay . project manager: just just a text only , not colour , just a little text thing industrial designer: I have to check that out , project manager: but maybe okay , make it industrial designer: I'm not sure . project manager: Yeah , find a little compromise in that , but What did I write down ? marketing: Yeah . project manager: I think the p yeah , the beep is a very simple thing to imple implement , just make a button on your T_V_ industrial designer: That must be possible . user interface: And it's industrial designer: whe where do you wanna hit the T_ you wanna we want a button on the television . project manager: I thin Yeah ,  where else should you put it ? industrial designer: In th okay , but that rules out a universal remote control . project manager: but how are you gonna use that if your  if your remote control is lost , how are you gonna press where are you gonna press the button ? industrial designer:  . user interface: Maybe just a slap-on sticker with a button which sends out a small signal . project manager: A little little box you can attach to your T_V_ is fine then , okay . industrial designer: Okay , then  I'd I'd like to know now if we want the  universal remote control or not , because that's  determines everything I'm gonna do . I think we should go for universal , industrial designer: If not project manager: because apparently we're a separate company making separate c remote controls to sell to a lot of diverse people . marketing: Everyone  wants to buy it , so we w project manager: Yeah , I think we're targeting everyone , industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: And it's marketing: Or when you say one two  i it  it's enough , project manager: Yeah , but I don't see Arabian people speaking one , two  whatever . user interface: Besides that , the technology isn't really super yet , so that is a problem in implementing this . project manager: It's not a mature technology , I think it takes a lot of memory and everything in in a remote control , marketing: Okay . project manager: so user interface: It's a good idea , but it's just not I don't think the market's ripe for that yet . project manager: maybe we don't have have to do all the buttons , but especially the ones that are  the popular buttons , so those always fade first . industrial designer: If we  make a remote control with changeable covers , then we can also make  a cover for every language area . project manager: For example ? industrial designer: That's fo is  especially for older people , that they can read it read it in their own language . project manager: Well , we're not we're not targeting older people , marketing: Yeah . project manager: You assume that that they read correctly and I think they're industrial designer: Huh . project manager: The most important thing about young people is that they're really sensitive to to trends that are passing through the world , marketing: But b project manager: so industrial designer:  okay . user interface: But should the exchangeable covers include the buttons themselves or just the project manager: No , of course . No , I think it's just something you you put over them , because Yeah we c Yeah , you ca Well , industrial designer:  . project manager: tha that's not a that's not a bad that's not even user interface: C marketing: But every user interface: that's a problem with the with the text then .  , for example , if you're if you're into the durability issue you could user interface: industrial designer:  . project manager: For example , if your buttons are faded , after  if you make a durable remote , they are faded , you can just buy a new cover . industrial designer:  but I know that the buttons are like a Nokia telephone on  one sleeve , project manager: industrial designer: It works the same as a Nokia telephone , it's it's in my  'kay . project manager: Yeah , I know , it's just just a one one piece of rubber for example , marketing: Yeah . Either either change both the buttons and and the cover or just the cover , I'm not sure which which is easier , industrial designer:  . project manager: so  anyway , yeah , this is what we're gonna do afterwards , just lunch break and have more individual work after that , so let's see what we let's see we So you have to come up with a components concept , yeah . I want some you should do some trend-watching , because even if we're if we're gonna do those covers and everything , what people really want , that's what we need to know in this phase , marketing: Yeah . project manager: because that's gonna be the essential final design that we're gonna come up with .  for example I bought a remote control last week with a new T_V_ , it was it l it's like all buttons and you have no idea what it does at first , industrial designer: project manager: and I'm total T_V_ new , anyway . So I think it should be have less or l very little buttons and maybe a second second level menu for the advanced things . Or maybe just stick 'em under a menu , like you said the  the sound options and the surround and whatever , they're more complicated , just stick 'em under one menu and  give it a just put it in in s in a software piece , you can menu and you can  select everything you want to to set on your T_V_ . user interface: Is it techni technically possible to  send a signal to a television and then pops up a menu , project manager: industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: because we're working with different types of television , so we're going to work with that ? project manager: That is true . user interface: It's an in-built menu , industrial designer: and if it doesn't know how , it's user interface: isn't it ? Yes . user interface: So basically project manager: I'm not sure if it's impossible , user interface: we project manager: but  there's a chance it's not , so . user interface: Or we could use a double-sided for less used functions project manager: A double-sided remote control ? user interface: you project manager: I don't think that's useful . I it's basically an idea to overcome these issues , project manager: Yeah , but then you're gonna have a lot of wasted buttons . user interface: because project manager: For example you have a Sony T_V_ and the half of the buttons won't function if you have a for a Sony that won't for a Philips T_V_ . project manager: I don't think we should user interface: Because if we use a universal remote control , we're going to have to have most buttons on it , project manager: Yeah , for exam user interface: so project manager: I'm not s marketing:  yeah . project manager: yeah , for ex you have to make it a little decision between the part if you want a universal remote control that it should do what people usually do with their T_V_s , not not the very complicated settings industrial designer:  . project manager: that you can usually do that with  either a old old remote control if they really hate that thing , industrial designer:  . project manager: but you can't you cannot take into consideration all the different brands of T_V_s . project manager: I think there's I think there is a standard for example between  industrial designer:  . 'Cause everybody I have a universal remote control and it can use the menu button , so I think industrial designer:  . project manager: I'm not sure , if you can put some research into that , if it's possible . For instance , if your old remote control is broken and you buy ours , then  you should be able to get everything out of the television that's in it . project manager:  we need to put some research into that if if we can open the menu , I think it's possible , just the way how to . project manager: Yeah , then then you could do everything I suppose , because usually the T_V_s have tha that inside in this other little piece of software , so it's okay . For instance  Sony makes all their remote controls exactly the same for all their devices , project manager: industrial designer: and you always grab the wrong one because formatting of the buttons is exactly the same , only the labels are different . Yeah I think it should be a little distinct from everything else , industrial designer: We should not do that . project manager: So  user interface: I'll put some on paper and present them next time  the ideas that I have . project manager: because we have forty minutes , I'm not sure how much time we have left for the meeting anyway , so . project manager: So anyway , yeah , we could do some i do some work now on on the design for example .  what do you want , do you want , but user interface: Yeah , but we like some some curves or project manager: Yeah , may maybe something like this . Let's see what I think this should these are always on top of the of the control , so they should be here . user interface: Yeah , and since you're holding it like this , I suggest you put the channel up channel down and volume project manager: Think it's like this . So you have the up channel the down channel the volume , do we want that horizontal or vertical ? project manager: Do you take triangles or marketing:  it's it's fine , I think . project manager:  I think it should be I think it user interface: This is basically what people are accustomed to , project manager: Maybe we should make 'em bigger or whatever . industrial designer: Perhaps we should also make  something like a flash on it , if you if it's lost , for people that are deaf . project manager: Yeah , but for example if it's lost in your armchair , we'll not see the flash . Yeah , it's true , but it's it's only has to do so when you press the button that it's lost . user interface: We could make a combination that it goes beep and that you that some light lights up . marketing: Just a light on it or user interface: So we have the basic channels we've got here ,  the power button somewhere over here ? project manager: Oh yeah , it's true . project manager: You shouldn't be you  shouldn't press it by accident , but it shouldn't be stacked away somewhere . marketing: And user interface: What would you like to ? project manager: Yeah , I thought maybe we should move the buttons down marketing: But you r project manager: and put it here for example marketing: And you are reading from the t project manager: to marketing: you always read from the top to the the bottom of it . Yeah , that's true , marketing: Yeah , project manager: you should marketing: so it's project manager: I think the bu the power button should be on top , industrial designer:  . user interface: Is that used often ? marketing: So i it's user interface: The mute button ? Do people use that often ? marketing: sorry ? project manager: Mute . user interface: 'Cause  I'm pretty much accustomed to it right over here , at least in general , marketing:  . user interface: but project manager: I don't think it's important , but I think it I think it should be you c user interface: It's not that important , no . project manager: No , because it Yeah , people are accustomed to that , marketing: Around  not  not at top at the around the volume selection . marketing: I don't know where exactly , project manager: Take this out and here see marketing: but project manager:  are we gonna take triangles anyway ? I'm drawing triangles , but marketing: user interface: That's pretty much what people are accustomed to , project manager: Yeah , user interface: aren't they ? project manager: it's maybe a bigger lesser than thing . So anyway , I think this is should be the channels and or sh user interface: Well , marketing: Wha user interface: I'm accustomed to the channels being on top . industrial designer: Shall we  also look if it's possible to make a rechargeable remote ? That you don't have to buy new batteries if every project manager: Well , marketing: Yeah . project manager: for that is it's on one part it's  it's a good thing to recharge it marketing: Maybe it's more ex expensive . project manager: Maybe we should what what could be possible is one with rechargeable batteries for example . project manager: You have just put Penlite batteries that are rechargeable , because it's an it's it's it's very annoying . user interface: But isn't that expensive in the entire package ? industrial designer: But that's already possible . project manager: I'm not sure y I'm not sure it's if it's expensive , but just take a look at it , because it might be a very good idea . Because if it's it's  useful to have it rechargeable , user interface: project manager: but at the same time , if you don't want recha if you forgot to recharge it and you wanna watch T_V_ now , you wanna be able to put different batteries in it , use it now and not in half an hour .  you could make a device , but I'm not sure how that  is possible with the costs , that you can put in normal batteries , rechargeable , project manager: I think I have a nice idea . industrial designer: You can  put in normal Penlites , rechargeable Penlites , but they can also be recharged with the remote , with a wire . project manager: I think it's  it's a pretty good idea to have  like sort of a maybe a base station that you put on the T_V_ . industrial designer: So but marketing: Yeah , that's g industrial designer: But I think that will cost a lot . project manager: A what ? industrial designer: Like a like a P_D_A_ , a hand-held . You can  just put it in the electricity and it charges itself , project manager: Well , we were talking about the fact that we wanted to insert either a beep or a flash into the thing with a little separate signal industrial designer: you don't need basic station . marketing: But Which project manager: It's a very small Yeah , I'm drawing it big now , but So you can put your remote on flat for example . user interface: 'Cause that means that we have to implement rechargeable batteries , a docking station industrial designer: project manager: I'm not sure if it costs a lot , that that's what he r industrial designer:  . I'm not sure if there's information available on this , project manager: It's just an idea , we have to find out if it's possible . industrial designer: but marketing: But user interface: And do people actually want that ? To pay extra they want to pay for rechargeable ? marketing: Yeah , they want to pay for it . project manager: I'm not sure , you should find out if it's if rechargeable is important . marketing: But project manager: They want to pay for comfort , industrial designer: Well , this is comfort . project manager: we just assu we we could either make a separate station which just sends a signal to the remote control to either beep or flash to find it , marketing: But f  . project manager:  and Yeah , we have to either that or make it integrated with a with a docking station . marketing: project manager: So  marketing: project manager: let's go through the industrial designer: I like the covers . So user interface: marketing: project manager: what we have is you have I think you have to do a lot of work on if it's possible for the cost . industrial designer: I hope if I have information about that , project manager: Maybe yeah , industrial designer: I'm gonna project manager: or maybe you can find out i what people are willing to pay . project manager: We are going for twenty five Euros sales price , industrial designer: marketing: Yeah , okay . project manager: but just try to find out what they're willing to pay for it , because if they're willing to pay more , we could lose a little profit and maybe attract more customers , marketing: Yeah yeah yeah . What it costs and what kind of materials that we can  choose what we want in it project manager: Yeah , if you have some financial information that that'd be nice , industrial designer: and exactly , I need it . user interface: Could you post some other essentials of what people want , so that I can work with some buttons , where to put it project manager: marketing: Yeah . user interface: You seem to have information on that , I'd like to  see some of it . industrial designer: Was it not possible to  send emails around the office ? project manager: No , it wasn't wasn't allo user interface: No , it's not . So that's  why I'm not sure that you're allowed to share documents on the on the draft .  marketing: but I have the  user interface: Well , I have your PowerPoint presentation , I can get some inf information out of that . marketing: Yeah , but I Here I have the the s the homepage of  our internet , user interface: Let's see . project manager: Yeah , the oh , they inc  marketing: and here is my project manager: they include the new one . user interface: Oh , where would we marketing: here is my marketing report , project manager: Oh marketing: maybe you ca you can look at  that project manager: no , I didn't have that . marketing: and user interface: Where would we want the  teletext button ? marketing: Ah yeah . project manager: All it tells just let's make make a new marketing: And one user interface: Do we put it somewhere over here ? project manager: tick the new one . Yeah , let's increase it a little because marketing: And  wha what people want , I've  user interface: Or maybe this is something for the next meeting , I can draw out some ideas . project manager: Yeah , draw us up some some designs of of possible marketing: I have another thing  project manager: just keep in mind that the important buttons should be on top and either big , user interface: Yeah . project manager: so the more less important user interface: Well , we have decided more or less the basic structure . user interface: I can put the other buttons in project manager: Just play a little with this , put l shift a little up or down and we'll see what looks best . industrial designer: What  what did you wanna say ? project manager: Or just po post your designs from time to time on the product share . marketing:  what I al already said is the the  the remote controls are always lost , user interface: Maybe another idea  . marketing: but it it's also for people , they want to learn it fast , industrial designer:  . marketing: not  they want to project manager: Yeah , so we don't want we want very little buttons , just the buttons you use a lot . marketing: It's yeah , it's easy to learn user interface: Yes , but it should cover all the functions , marketing: wi and  project manager: Well user interface: so possibly , just an idea that popped in project manager: what we had function that what people do , marketing:  project manager: so . People change channels , people they change the volume and they they change channel , they turn T_V_ off and on , for example . That's the basic fu that's what you do I'm not sure who present that again , but those are the basic function that people use it for , so those should be very well represented . user interface: Yeah , but we could go a step further , marketing: And The If user interface: because some T_V_s have the  possibility to adjust brightness , that kind of menus . user interface: Yes , but it Because we're making industrial designer: But that's the question , is it ? marketing:  industrial designer: Because it needs to be configured in the television under the menu . project manager: Yeah , but industrial designer: If it isn't , then we cannot reach it . industrial designer:  isn't there a possibility to do research on that , so we know that for sure ? If you rule out functions , then  and that gets known , then people are not gonna buy it . marketing: user interface: No , I thi industrial designer: Then the consumer bond or something says  you cannot do this and that with it . That's a bad bad com commercial marketing: If  project manager:  we'll we'll see what we can come up with . marketing: Another thing I want to say is that  we are looking at the market for the age  younger than forty . marketing:  on my report , I didn't  ish I didn't show it in my  presentation , project manager: Yeah , project manager:  shall we ? industrial designer: Do they realise how much that costs ? marketing: and industrial designer: That's almost undoable . user interface: Oh , we're not going to be able to sell it for twenty-five then , with an L_C_D_ screen . marketing:  but project manager: That's all here , here it says industrial designer: No , that's that's . marketing: So  user interface: marketing: we can project manager: Speech recognition is quite marketing: We can look at the possibilities for an  L_C_D_ and  project manager: Yeah , just look at the possibilities then , marketing: I dunno . project manager: it's supposed to be a luxurious remote , marketing: How much it will cost industrial designer:  . Or find a compromise , maybe just a black and white or for some extra information on it , on your programmes . industrial designer:  I user interface: Well marketing:  user interface: I doubt it , but industrial designer: But I really need finance information . Even if you put it even if you put a different cover on it , it looks still looks boring , marketing: Different colours maybe . marketing: But all industrial designer: This is Philips , huh ? project manager: I have no clue . Oh , I realise if we make it small , then it needs to be a little thicker , project manager: I think it's a very industrial designer: because I need to put all the electronics in it . project manager: Sorry ? industrial designer: If we make it s  smaller ,  less wide , then we need to m make it a little thicker , project manager: Yeah ? industrial designer: because I have to put all the electronics in it . project manager: Huh even if user interface: So project manager: in the worst case we can even user interface: what kind of project manager: Could you give me the pen back ? user interface: Yeah , sure . project manager: So let's say that people would want an L_C_D_ thing . We could let's say we have an L_C_D_ screen , people want an L_C_D_ screen . marketing: project manager: It doesn't have to be really big , but just just have to be has to be there . project manager: Think it's a good place , people don't marketing: If you're reading from top to bottom , I think it's better to put it  at the top . project manager: No ? It's not that  it's not the most important function , industrial designer: Me too . marketing: It's j project manager: it's just an extra thing , industrial designer: Ah project manager: it just you press the buttons on top , marketing:  . But i if you if you are going to  put the L_C_D_ on it , I think it's very important to use it , industrial designer: but . marketing:  because it's use it  project manager: How can you use an L_C_D_ screen ? marketing: But nee the function of it . project manager:  if you t if you press a button , you can see it , industrial designer:  . project manager: ri I'm not sure wha I'm trying to imagine myself what it would look like . marketing: so project manager:  this looks a little user interface: I'm still not convinced of the marketing: you must use the maximum of it . project manager: if it's possible wi if it's not too expensive , we should include it , industrial designer: They want it  . But  industrial designer: Also keep in mind again , the L_C_D_ screen is very flat , but it needs transistors , resistors , I don't know what more and that needs space . user interface: So basically industrial designer: But if we user interface: can I project manager:  we have green now  user interface: what we have to decide now is  what goes on top . Do we put the volume control and the channel control here , or do we put it on he Would we like to press it in the middle ? project manager: Or maybe we should m we could  draw draw something a bit that has it on on on the bottom . user interface: Yes , but we do agree that we keep this at the centre , project manager: because it marketing: Yeah . project manager: We're not sure about the size anyway , user interface: So maybe you'd put them here . For example if you take  user interface: Yes , but a big remote control probably not something which people would like . For example just industrial designer: If we have a a space issue , we can also lose one battery . project manager: I don't think if we if we even use an L_C_D_ screen , we need to , definitely . Yeah , but if we need two batteries and an L_C_D_ screen , that means a lot of space that we need . project manager: The L_C_D_ doesn't have to nee doesn't need to be very big . So either user interface: So would we like this or would we like the project manager: We either we have to decide what what people want . project manager: so if your basic function's here , we should like we decided before , programmes up and down , and volume here . marketing: Or And  what about speech recognition  project manager: Well you can just no , I'm not sure if we can do that , marketing: Yeah , yeah , project manager: but we could put a microphone in here for example . project manager: Just to do research into both , w what it costs and what it takes for space . industrial designer: One more  thing I'd like to say ,  let's give this  a name , and not like some vague serial number that no one understands , like with cars . marketing: Yeah , okay , yeah , industrial designer: Shall we all try  to think about a name ? user interface: So I think of a name . project manager: Okay , at anyways , the the minutes will be on the on the web shortly , user interface: So project manager: so there we go  . project manager: industrial designer: Yeah , I've Do we  save the ? project manager: marketing: 