industrial designer: Is there any time for a cup of coffee ? user interface: We have a slight problem . project manager: Sorry ? industrial designer: Can I get a cup of coffee ? project manager:  no . project manager:  then  the three of you  prepared a presentation , I think ? Sebastian ? industrial designer: I think so too . user interface: industrial designer: project manager: Then we'll do your one   as la  the last .  the top goal of this m user interface: But you can't upload your presentation from here , I believe . project manager:  the top goal of this meeting is to reach a decision on the product , on the target group  and and the functions of the remote control , so keep that in mind .  the new project requirements , first of all ,  we didn't speak about it , but we should not  support teletext in the remote ,  because our b  board  feels that  teletext is out of date and internet is replacing teletext .  the remote control should only be used for television , because it's not  f  feasible , it's not  w user interface: Yeah . project manager:   we we cannot make it because of the time to market  that we have to deal with . project manager:  the third requirement is that we should focus on customers that are younger than  forty , which is important for you ,  Ruud , and as well for  Roo .  then for Roo , as well  important , the corporate image should be recognisable in our product .  the individual presentations , I th  Roo or Sebastian , who of you would like to start ? user interface: Yeah , I'll start .  the method of the remote control is just the function of remote control is basically to send messages to the television set . user interface: Then I found  two different kind of remote controls , the multi-function  remote control with many possibilities , but  the lack of the feeling I already mentioned  in the previous  discussion . user interface: And the ease-of-use remote control with  the less p possibilities but a great feeling in in touching the buttons . My personal preferences were ease of  the easy to use remote control , because  the user-friendliness and  it can be more trendy in in user design . But it should b I think it should be a combination , but teletext buttons are not  in our design . But my in my opinion , the the easy to use R_C_ is  the best  possi possibility for us . project manager: Okay , so marketing: project manager: the important thing here is user interface: And it's also i indeed   Ruud's  insight in the in the topic . project manager: Yeah , okay , w we will s we all  user interface: Just for  for user desi  user  friendliness I  should choose for the the ease of use remote control .  well , there are some changes in the design requirements , so there are some changes in the method also . user interface: industrial designer:  basically all this device has to do is send messages to a T_V_ set . And the m most easy way to do this is by  sending pulses of infrared light to a T_V_ set . Well , I th I tried to  implement a picture here , user interface: Energies and  industrial designer: but it's hardly readable . The user interface connected to a chip , which is connected to the sender , which generates messages using  infrared light , which are sent to the receiver . And there's a little picture , just for your imagination , how a device like this should look or can look . Usually these kind of things consist of a battery , infrared diode , buttons , chips , and circuit board . It's almost every piece of equipment  every piece of  every T_V_ set is controlled infrared . And I think that's what we w user interface: The glow in the dark  concept  we discussed . And the whole thing is transmitted by a infrared li diode , and there is not a power source here . industrial designer: and I think we should  we should c s succeed in in our plan to do this . industrial designer: personally I think we should infra use infrared , because  otherwise our device cannot  communicate with  almost every T_V_ set . And  if we want to use  a rechargeable design or  a energy-save design , we should really implement them .  for cost-effectiveness , we should really use a very low-cost  circuit board ,  because most of the production cost are are in this  part of the equipment . industrial designer: And  the money we save on using this we can use  for elaborate fancy lighting  techniques , blinking LEDs and all that kind of fancy stuff . user interface: And what's the  industrial designer: I think our  users will really  will really like that . user interface: if we use the LEDs , i does it use much more energy or industrial designer: No , they're p f  power friendly LEDs also . user interface: For the same costs , it's can be  in our industrial designer:  no , they're  they're a little bit more expensive , but by    making user interface: Combined with the low-cost circuit board so it's  industrial designer: We can we can make its I think . project manager: Yeah , but but the question is whether  two or four buttons makes  m makes such a difference in the costs if you already plan to  include fancy lightning techniques , I guess . user interface: Yeah , I think it's the same as in the cell phone , just light in in the device that that shines on all the buttons , marketing: true . Well , it's not one light , it there are more lights in a in a in a mobile device . project manager: Okay well , industrial designer: project manager: we ar we are very curio curious to what the market  will feel about such a product . marketing: But  since  the other part is  forty percent of the market , I  thought earlier we might want to constrain that portion of the market . The buttons to zap are used the about  fifteen hundred times , when  the power button is only used one time . So user interface: Yeah , well it should just have a design The perfect design for those only those buttons . Just one thing I'm just wondering , the sound signal , from where do you execute th the s sound ? industrial designer: Well marketing: Yeah , that's  a problem . project manager: Well industrial designer: Usually project manager: maybe maybe like clapping in your hands , user interface: It should be   project manager: like  turning on and off the the the lights . You press it and your T_V_ set starts to make a  kind of weird sound , and your  remote controls then start to beep . project manager: But  th user interface: But but T_V_s don't have all   buttons . marketing: And you project manager: Yeah , because we do not have a a a a a home  user interface: But I believe you will have an marketing: Yeah , and usually industrial designer: We do not control the T_V_ set so well . marketing: And even if the T_V_ set would have such a button ,  you would have to walk to your T_V_ , industrial designer: Yes , m yes . S and we b we want to make so it's is easy as possible for our customers , marketing: and it's project manager: Okay . industrial designer: so we should think about project manager: So what about the clapping technique ?  because you se user interface: I'm convinced  Sebastian will  find  one solution for us . marketing: And b project manager: Well , you see it a lot in in light  lightning   industrial designer: Yes , yes . Well , basically the characteristics  the characteristics of clapping is just an increase in the volume , the amplitude of the sound , project manager: Yeah , a peak . industrial designer: But there are many other sounds  which are exactly the same from the point of view from a remote control . industrial designer: Yes , user interface: But we can have just   a home stat  f a base station next to the T_V_ . user interface: Well if you lost th industrial designer: Well , project manager: Well  industrial designer: is there not something f something more easily user interface: I don't think people would bother walking to the T_V_ and press that button because they lost the their remote . user interface:  that's just  industrial designer: No , and y the the most important thing for people is that there's a central point to which they can go and  b  perform a a some kind of  . You do not want another device , which can be  everywhere in the house , which you have to find first before you can find your remote control . project manager: Yeah , m maybe  w we  we do agree on on the thing that the remote should have such a function , if it's possible within the costs and all that kind of things . project manager:  maybe Sebastian should have  a detailed look later on and  come up with a solution , industrial designer: But  before I do that I w I want to warn you that  by implementing this kind of a function the technical design will become more complicated project manager: And there are some implepe imp user interface: And do we even  prefer the sound above the the LEDs , the lightning  function ? industrial designer: Well , I I think so , because  when you have a p newspaper over your remote control , you cannot see it . user interface: It's a unique item  project manager: Yeah , it's a distinction in the market . project manager: and  I think  it's worth   looking and and probably more i interesting than  than the lights . user interface: And just about  the user interface , I came up with  an easy remote control and an advanced remote control . marketing: Well , t  we won't support teletext which which was the third-most the second-most used function . project manager: Well , we we do have a wise board , so I'm not questioning that . And we don't have to use it for D_V_D_ players  and all kind of stuff . user interface: So industrial designer: we should save costs  by not implementing a lot of functions and  the money that we can save from that we should use for  having a nice design and  thinking about the user interface project manager: Yeah . Okay , industrial designer: and project manager: Ruud , how do you feel about that ?  do you agree , do you think the market would would respond to  a simple marketing:  well if we  include other  innovative functions  then they  might , project manager: user interface:  just a few buttons , trendy design , nice lightning effects wh and the sound . You can make it look like an easy s piece of equipment , but it's quite elaborated ,  because it has many functions . industrial designer: Maybe it's more important to make the make it look like a very  friendly , easy to catch piece of equipment , but  nevertheless project manager: But but are we not in in the in the manual   if you have few buttons , no display ,    I guess it's l it's working with with a shift functions and  one button can  industrial designer: Well , I was more thinking about a more elaborate way of controlling , by by these kinds of sticks or something like that . project manager: But but how does how does the remote  report  r  give back to the user w in what state it is ? user interface: Yeah , I don't know yet . There's no , but there's no way to do that , because we cannot implement that kind of the system . project manager: I know , but but if we use  like a stick , for example ,  industrial designer: W When you move the stick to a to a position , maybe  a light next to it can lit up . So you know I've just  pushed the button , or I changed the channel or t  turned up the volume . marketing: And if you use that stick for volume control and channel  selection , you have the m two most important functions in one  button . user interface: But does it  I then should n just use  i instead of the stick ,  like many cell phones , just a round m well , project manager: Yeah , draw draw it on the board . Oh user interface: It's just an easy  way of of a round button what which can be pushed in four directions . user interface: A stick is v vulnerab vulnerable when it's falling down project manager: Yeah , it can break down . marketing: And it's also quite easy to use , so it'll it  attract younger people because well new , and it might attract older people because it's easy to use . project manager: Okay , but w we still we're still in the question of    putting in advanced options .  we can't discuss it right now , because n no one of us have has the information to discuss about that , I think . user interface: Yes ? project manager: We need to  have the  the user function  the functions decided and   our target audience . Do do you want a list of functions ? Do you want an explicit list ?  which  incorporates all function available on the device ? project manager:  well , I do not want a full  it's not necessary to to have a full list , but I want  the kind of functions , for example  th the most important are volume and  programme selecting . l how is the remote going to look ? Not not in the user interface , but user interface: Oh , and just one function . The the the the programme to programme button , the switch to  two channels , when you have  something on channel four and something on channel six , just one button which which can  change industrial designer: project manager: Mielsen , because I I was writing it down in the last  Mielsen . industrial designer: but make a s make a sub-folder for it , because it's starting to fill up already . project manager: And and do we want  the ten digits ? user interface: The ten digits ? Yeah , I believe so . industrial designer: Well , are are you sure ? marketing: Well , if you want to go to channel ninety and you have th that button . industrial designer: but is that so relevant ? Because I don't think but you should  shou you should know that . industrial designer: Okay , user interface:  and I think the most industrial designer: I can imagine when project manager: I agree actually . user interface: Just elder elder people would would buy it , industrial designer: I can imagine when you're when you have a satellite decoder and and you have , well , about six hundred channels , I can imagine you want this . marketing: Well user interface: but industrial designer: But if you're  a regular T_V_ user , and you just want  to watch the the Dutch television networks , well , you can  you can use  about ten buttons . industrial designer: Well , marketing: Yeah , industrial designer: but how how often do you watch all these channels ? marketing: and if if we And if we are targeting at the younger audience , they will probably watch more channels than the older people . Don't you think ? project manager: Well , it depends on the on the on the looks , on the on the industrial designer: The design . marketing: Well project manager: You c you can d make them very fancy marketing: And project manager: by   Nokia , they have ten digits on their phones and it still looks very fancy . industrial designer: Okay , so you can experiment by  with with shape or with size or with colour , that kind of thing .  it might be expensive and  hard to implement , but it would be a solution  for project manager: Okay , speech . industrial designer: So  when you add  speech recognition to your remote control ,  it's very easy to change  the channel . industrial designer: So maybe that's a possibility , but I'm afraid it will be a bit costly . project manager:  If if we would  drop the ten digits industrial designer: But maybe when we  project manager: but keep the programme and the volume , industrial designer: It's mas it makes it very easy for us to implement the find  find the remote control button  remote control function . industrial designer: There are some  hybrid hybrid devices which incorporate a solar panel and rechargeable batteries . industrial designer: So when you just leave the device in a in a light room , it charges itself . project manager: But But but can we manage it bu  for the costs ? industrial designer: You have to do nothing for it . marketing: And  if we if we could inc  include a c a cradle in which it could recharge , then there wouldn't be  a big problem . marketing: 'Cause when project manager: Is a cradle very cheap ? industrial designer: It's Oh , it's very cheap .  I would like to hear  maybe maybe you all have th  things not  spoken about , yeah , but that are important .  are there other things about the market we should know ? marketing:  I think we dealt with the most important information . project manager: Sebastian ? industrial designer:  I just want to make a summary of all all things  spoken and  the different possibilities . So on the outside it looks easy , but  we can make it easy on the inside or elaborate on the inside . But I think there's a big advantage in making it more elaborate by  implementing  speech techniques ,  voice recognition , that these kinds of things .  there are some advantages and some disadvantages , and the main advantage is that we can implement  fancy techniques , which  I think our customers will like . The disadvantage is that there are some concerns about  the the costs and  the things like  battery lifetime , energy saving . industrial designer:  another advantage is that the circuit board will become much more easier if we do not do not implement these buttons . If we just add   a chip which does the voice recognition ,  our circuit board will become even more cheap . So that's another project manager: Yeah , and that was the main issue , right ? The the board industrial designer: well , it wa it w it was an issue , but we also thought that we already thought we should do it as cheaply as possible . user interface: But the cheaper the ch  the the chip or th what was it ? industrial designer: project manager: No , it's th industrial designer: The fewer buttons you have , the ch ch the cheaper the circuit board , yes . user interface: Well it then we should just  take a look at the costs and  especially for the voice recognition . project manager: I'm not sure how how we'll f  determine the costs , I will have a look at it . project manager:  I'm not sure how how that industrial designer: Yes , I al I I hope my personal coach will  have a lo  look at it . project manager:  I'm don't know how long the break will be , but we'll find out . project manager:  then we will have thirty minutes of time to perform our individual work ,  and I'm sure your personal coaches will  assist you with it . project manager: User Interface Designer ,  Roo , I would like to see the user interface c  concept . project manager: And  user interface:  the only problem is it that it depends on the divisions the decis  decisions Sebastian makes . industrial designer: Well project manager: Well , i it should be easy , user interface: Well project manager: that's w w what we concluded . industrial designer: So we drop the voice recognition ? project manager: No no no , we didn't industrial designer: Or project manager: but it shouldn't be integrated industrial designer: Oh . project manager: yeah , it's of course it's user interface , but  i I was talking about really the design of the industrial designer: Okay 