project manager: I've  made a presentation  but  I'll open it on the Smartboard , so we can all see it . project manager: So it's in the project documents because that's what we can find here . So  I'm the Project Manager , so I had to fill it in , marketing: 'Kay .  we'll do the opening and then  we'll meet each other , what  we already do , so , that's not  very much trouble . I'll I'll show you the the tools we have here , so that we can all use them . marketing: project manager: We'll discuss about our first ideas about the project , and then  we'll close the meeting , and then we can  individually  do our things and then  we'll get back here . And  Well it has to be a have the the right  the right buttons on the right place , that kin those kind of things .  so every time we we'll do some individual work , get meeting , talk about it ,  and then go into the next phase .  well as I just showed , there's a project management folder , a project document folder on the desktop . You just  click on the on the folder and you open the everything you you put in it with your laptop .  and the w the r  the rest  also works the same so  when you open a notepad you  you just get your  things , you can  draw . industrial designer: user interface: industrial designer: Maybe you should try to write on the on the big white  project manager: Yes I will industrial designer: Does it ? Yeah . project manager:  just we can start a new one , and we just go on , and don't throw anything away . So  we all  are going to  draw a nice animal on this board , user interface: industrial designer: marketing: project manager: not my idea . So  I'm to going to have to draw a kangaroo , industrial designer: project manager: but I'm going d I'm not going to . industrial designer: I hope this was part of the assignment and not  your  project manager: Yeah , 'kay . project manager: but I am the Project Manager , industrial designer: project manager: and officially this is my idea . project manager: what ? marketing: We're losing time , but project manager: Ah the first the first meeting is just a bit  loose , loosen up , a bit  meeting each other industrial designer: so start marketing: Alright . project manager: I hope our Industrial Designer does this better because  this is  industrial designer: Don't  count on it . marketing: Do we have to guess ? project manager: Yes yes marketing: A hippo ? project manager: guess . marketing: project manager: We're going back and now  our Industrial Designer can  draw its  most favourite animal . project manager: what kind of animal is that then ? industrial designer: I think can I say it ? marketing: Yeah sure . marketing: project manager: No no save it and start a new  save it and start a new black  doc a blank document . industrial designer: These are very important documents , of course ,  these drawings ,  project manager: Yeah well we have to save everything marketing: Yes  right . project manager: So  well you should  try it but  marketing: I should have made mine a white rabbit . marketing: project manager: What the industrial designer: It looks like an  project manager:  just a duck . project manager: Is it a duck ? marketing: You're standing in front of it , industrial designer: It's it's  project manager: Is it a plane ? marketing: I can't see it . Yeah it's a bird , but what kind of bird ? industrial designer: project manager: It doesn't draw  circles  that easy  . industrial designer: But we have  do we have to name the specific species of the bird ? marketing: Release your anger . project manager: and then  user interface: marketing: project manager: And then a a new blank document for . industrial designer: Why do I have to do the difficult tasks ? project manager: No well first industrial designer:  pen project manager: yeah . project manager: And then you go to format I think , and current colour industrial designer:  current colour . Just a wa that's the way we do industrial designer:  project manager: it's quite easy . project manager: industrial designer: Well if this isn't obvious project manager: Well well  marketing: Just save it . project manager: Well it's terrific , eh ? user interface: industrial designer: Thanks for this exercise . We're we want to sell it at twenty five Euros internationally  so  but we dunno what exactly th i it is in dollars , but  twenty five Euros . industrial designer: So project manager: we want to keep it our costs at twelve and a half Euros so , keep  that in mind when we  talk about our  materials an f and stuff , and  marketing  research . project manager: Now then we all  we can  sit down and discuss  what do we think about our current remote controls , first about design  about  aim in the market etcetera ? marketing: Right . We can  take notes and  Well who has  some  remarks about the current  remote controls ? Please ? industrial designer: Well I I didn't have to prepare anything about  project manager: No  I did . industrial designer: it's not , it's it's not my task to  talk about  experience with current remote controls , but  project manager: Well  just w we're  four  if we if we would just have one then marketing: I think it's im it's important to  look at  the remote controls of our competitors . marketing: On our corporate site I saw  a new D_V_D_ player  we're gonna produce . marketing: Maybe it's important to make it compatible with the D_V_D_ player project manager: That would be a nice idea , yes . marketing: so you can  use your television and your D_V_D_ player with the same  remote control . marketing: Furthermore it's important to make it  acceptable for the whole world , for different cultures , maybe , because we want to we want to well fifty million ? project manager: Yes fifty million is our aim to a profit , so . marketing: Yeah yeah user interface: marketing: so a lot of people have to be able to use it . industrial designer: No but  the b the buttons have to  have to have  international recognisable buttons and  marketing: So user interface: Easy to learn . project manager: I'll make  notes and then  maybe  well I'll put it in the project  folder when I'm done  just now . project manager: Y y you don't use  the half of them that's that's user interface: Precisely . marketing: Maybe we could make one button to switch between D_V_D_ player and T_V_ user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: Yeah so it doesn't  become too complicated with too much buttons and  marketing: Yeah right . project manager: Yep , and maybe we do  we even have  more than just a D_V_D_ player . Don't we have  other  ou user interface: Yeah we should make it compatible perhaps with everything we use , we  we make ? project manager:  . marketing: Yeah so but th that's kind kind of standard T_ television so it also works on that . user interface: And I think the people who who will buy our  remote already have some experience with remotes . industrial designer: It doesn't project manager: It doesn't have to be , but we can . user interface: industrial designer: it doesn't have to be user interface: W well it's a n it's a new remote and you don't buy a remote if you don't have anything to  to control with it . user interface: Yeah alright , but marketing: We need to to keep it consistent with other d  project manager: Yeah because we look at competitors industrial designer: Well . project manager: and w if we pick up the good things about that and give it a nice design industrial designer:  . industrial designer: you can make it  triangle shaped , user interface: Well we we could make more more oval or something , and and industrial designer: but that's not  very recognisable . project manager: Oo industrial designer: Oval ? project manager: N we can use  it as a as a game pad . user interface: Yeah or so industrial designer: I project manager: So one hand has the beer , so the other hand  user interface: Well yeah it's new . user interface: but young people want something different marketing: No user interface: and it is project manager: Well i we already  marketing: Yeah but it's quite important that it fits . project manager: one of our aims is that it has to be original and trendy so user interface: Yeah . But you still have to know it's a remote and not another project manager: Well there has been done a lot of researches about remotes  we have to we can imagine  user interface: Yeah alright . project manager: for me personally I have a a lot of remotes  at home but those ones that have a a round ending and  well  just an  square  middle I don't like to use them . project manager: When it falls over it and I just have and then the button that I use most has to be here . project manager: It f it fits your hands and then you just push the button that you use most with thumb . marketing: Nah I don't agree with the long box  shape industrial designer: Why not ? marketing: it it has to be custom made for the hand . project manager: Tho tho those new D_V_D_ players on the market do have those . industrial designer: But it does fit in the hand if you hold it like this , and you can make it another shape , marketing: Yeah but if you shape it industrial designer: but then you have user interface: No if y if you look at new Phillips  D_V_D_ with their  remotes pl players they they are the new remotes aren't box shaped . marketing: industrial designer: W no w what else ? marketing: No that's ol old fashioned . industrial designer: Yeah well but  what what what do you suggest then ? user interface: Yes  marketing: I can imagine that us user interface: Well most of of them are are somewhat thicker at the end , and get  yeah thinner towards the  the other end . industrial designer: but it's still then  the the long box ,  but then with some  round  round forms in it to fit your hand , user interface: Yeah it project manager: Well marketing:  ? project manager: A it h it has it it has a that's tha th th shape that it fits your hand . industrial designer: but it's it's still Yeah yeah al alright project manager: That's industrial designer: but but it's still it's still sort of box , yeah . user interface: Yeah yea industrial designer: It it has round forms marketing: Well industrial designer: but it in the end it's still the box , so that's what  . industrial designer: Yeah yeah I understand , but no no I don't mean an entire box like completely square marketing: It shouldn't be too boxy , you know . industrial designer: but in in in at the end it's still this long box shape with convenient  round  shapes  to fit . project manager: marketing: Right maybe something like this industrial designer: Yeah yes marketing: and then a button here to switch between different systems like D_V_D_ player industrial designer: I thought about something like that . marketing: and so you can I've industrial designer: A big recognisable button on top or something . marketing: Yeah right , and I do think we have to keep this kind of idea with the with the numbers and user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: The buttons should  also be not too small , not too big , of course , marketing: Right . marketing: But it should be possible to to  make it ap apparent that there are two functions for every button . user interface: Yeah maybe we can  just like on cell phones those  well you can you can put on on them , industrial designer: Colours , yeah . user interface: and so you can customise your  your own remote with different colours or or special paint jobs marketing: That's kinda trendy . user interface: I dunno but industrial designer: I think we have to talk also about  the the materials for  project manager: Well it's just  about our first ideas now user interface: Well industrial designer: . project manager: so I think individually we'll have to  come up with ideas for the next meeting about these materials and markets etcetera . But project manager: Yes ? industrial designer: Already thought about something tha marketing: I think it's  it's important to  notate all the the decisions that we make , project manager: Yes . industrial designer: we have some some minutes left  I w wrote down  that the case should be plastic of course , hard plastic , the buttons should be  rubbery I think  . project manager: Well I have had remotes that  they had  the function of the buttons was about   a layer over the buttons user interface: . industrial designer: No n n project manager: and when I've had use it much it was gone . Is there an a universal  universal way of  transmitting from the remote to the television so it's all about  industrial designer: I think so . industrial designer: It's a a common stan standard way project manager: It's not that in China it's different ? marketing: Yep . But y you can have  of course different between D_V_D_s and televisions and between marketing: And you can use industrial designer: It it's a we we make an a universal remote so it ha has to work with  all kinds of brands and things . But our T_V_s are mostly made in China and that sort of country , so project manager: Probably yes . user interface: industrial designer: And have well yeah I've wrote something down about how it works . The user presses a button and with an infrared beam it signals the television set accordingly , project manager: marketing: But are industrial designer: but that's pretty obvious , I think . project manager: user interface: marketing: Are we going w  with the front  fronts  idea ? project manager: Well I think  w we can look into that in the in the next  thirty minutes . marketing: and you can always use a front front on it , you know ? You can use it just plain project manager: Yes . project manager: Well j just y you get a n a normal front with it , but you can change them  when you buy the user interface: Yeah . project manager: And we should  dispatch those kind of fronts fronts a a around the world so  user interface:  . user interface: Well you can make profit with them , and it's a way to make them trendy . project manager: Well th those fifty million don't  don't se sells itself so we have to  make  some extra effort like fronts  . industrial designer: Well but th but the standard front will be  just grey or something user interface: Yeah alright . Yeah well it has to it h it has to fit the the te television and D_V_D_ set we are going to sell , user interface: No a colour everyone accepts . project manager: so if they are  black and black black and silver we'll make them black and silver so user interface:  . user interface: project manager: If you have a a a television room for little children and you make a if if you buy a a pink front they'll they'll love it . Well our user interface you can  maybe  I don't know what your specific instructions will be , but  probably about  the precision of the buttons and and those kind of things and what buttons will have to be on the  remote . industrial designer:  yeah also the the look and feel  of the the remote's also my task , yeah . user interface: What's the  url or the website 'cause I didn't get marketing: Right . marketing: It's Yeah yeah yeah just if you start up your Internet Explorer project manager: Well it it it's user interface: Yeah . project manager: if you  industrial designer: It's the the the start  starting page  user interface: Oh oh right oh well I didn't  use it . user interface: project manager: Well  we're going to back  back into our rooms so user interface: Yes . user interface: Next meeting is in project manager: In thirty minutes , but  I think it will be you will be warned  through your laptop  to get over here . user interface: Yeah alright it's it's handy to know project manager: I'll have to restore my  my desktop  industrial designer: Very handy to know . project manager: Ma industrial designer: W marketing: Oh user interface: S project manager: W that was a nice meeting 