project manager: You all saw the newsflash ? industrial designer: It's project manager: Or you got the same message ? marketing: Yeah I I just saw it one minute ago . Yeah I received an email so I thought I I can't mail you so I thought I'd just drop it in the folder , but marketing: Yeah pretty much . industrial designer: Huh ? marketing:  ? project manager:  industrial designer: What the marketing: Oh right . project manager: or is there some pressing issue ? industrial designer: Yeah my computer is not functioning properly . user interface: marketing: project manager: Did you plug in the power cable when you come back ? industrial designer: Yeah yeah . industrial designer: I spent a lot of time thinking about what I was gonna do and then a couple of minutes before this I get my function you know the information that I need . This presentation is mainly based on my own ideas 'cause I hadn't time to intergrate tha the information yet so user interface: Yeah .  industrial designer: Ts marketing: there is also  was also some research on  the most relevant and and and irrelevant  f functions . marketing:  if you can't control the the sound settings  if you dislike a very  loud bass or something , you you need to change that . industrial designer: By the way my T_V_ doesn't have an equ equaliser but marketing: We c we c Yeah  w we can't project manager: Next generation does .  teletext but we can skip that because I saw the newsflash , and teletext is so outdated that it it's i should not be used  any more in the future . industrial designer: By the way where did you guys get that newsflash from ? user interface: Yeah . marketing: I thought I read a project manager: Our current customers are in the age group forty plus . marketing: Yeah ? project manager: And the new product should reach new markets , which is the customers below forty . marketing: Below ? Okay well user interface: But where did you get  that information ? project manager: That's in a newsflash . marketing: that's that's in the newsfla project manager: user interface: Okay .  Yeah well we can skip this part as well , because I thought I read above forty so we could skip the features , but we just have to build them in because  they find it very interesting .  and and also there's so not only the design of the bus  buttons but o how you can push them , and stuff like that .  And I think and certainly for for the for the lower age groups ,  nice design , which  does not make the remote control in your room . marketing: It's it's actually a part of your interior , of of your design in your room . So it's the people can say , well what's that , well that's my remote control , so it's d it has to look nice and feel nice , and and have all the functions that  project manager: Yeah . marketing: Yeah so but I I don't think that's that's a problem because the thing has to have a colour anyway , and most of the times there is a brand present on it . industrial designer: user interface: How do I  project manager: You pressed alt F_ four ? user interface: No no no . user interface:  this one is the the yeah the advanced one with a lot of options and functions and buttons . marketing: Yeah and and and marketing research stated that that that kind of users are not afraid of of a lot of functions . industrial designer: And we do have to integrate the screen and the the speech marketing: And the speech recognition yeah . We have to to make them very easy so for just  zapping around the channels you can just push one button . user interface: But if you want to to use your your video recorder or something else , you should use use an  an advanced option . marketing: Yeah but  the the newsflash also stated that it should control only one device , only your television . marketing: Yeah well what what we can do with the screen is is all the the configuration options , you can put that in the screen . marketing: And the and the yeah screen menu to to to  to do that , industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: So it looks very simple and all the advanced features are hidden in the screen ,  with a clear menu . project manager: So what does the screen do ? They said they needed it but what does it do ? What do they want with the screen ? user interface: For for the advanced functions I think . marketing: Yeah well it yeah it didn't project manager: So but what did the marketing marketing: it didn't say what they want to do with the screen . marketing: Well I , my guess is it's it's pretty handy for advanced  advanced functions . user interface:  the we have to to to watch out for the i if we make it f very fashionable , it it the functional functionality will go down . marketing: Well you can improvise right ? project manager:  which one is it ? Technical functions ? industrial designer: Yeah a little bit . user interface: project manager: You didn't put it in ? Or industrial designer: I have no idea . marketing: So we can go for the look-and-feel of the the left example , and then a screen on top of it . So I was just working off the top of my head and using my colin common knowledge about  remote controls . industrial designer:  so I didn't really know what kind of functions we had to put into it yet . industrial designer:  I was working on a s yeah on a schedule , and I was supposed to do it like this . But  yeah then  the information came and it was kind of exact with all the steps in the remote control that I had to follow , so I was trying to organise them for myself . Mean you press a button  the it tru goes , it sends a signal to a chip , project manager: And then  through a  transformer , it the signal gets boosted and then sent to the to the receiver on the T_V_ project manager: Yeah decoder . industrial designer:  I dunno if I'm too slow for this stuff , but  project manager: Work harder . marketing: user interface: Okay shou should we make a list of the of all the functions we want  marketing: industrial designer: Yeah .  for those that didn't see yet  the basic new requirements of the management were no teletext , only for T_V_ .  it should be designed for a use g  group below forty , but I don't think it's w wrong if we can  target the current customer group as well . And we have to decide on the functions , and on the , let's see what was it ,  the target group . project manager: Yeah so I think it's easy but marketing: I guess that's that's the tar yeah  or male and female user interface: But  it's it's also for children or just  project manager: Yeah it's below forty so we can decide where to marketing:  six the marketing research started on s on the age of sixteen . marketing: Sixteen to twenty five , twenty five to thirty five , thirty five to forty five , something like that . marketing: How do you mean ? project manager: So is it from sixteen to forty ? Is it from twenty to forty ? Is it from thirty ? marketing:  sixteen to forty . user interface: And if we have a larger public we have  yeah more options to to  sell our product . industrial designer: Yeah so what we might wanna do is  yeah cust I have customised the screen functions , if you know what  . industrial designer: The  younger users are more acquainted with these kind of machines so they can use more advanced functions . user interface: Yeah that's that's why  I wanted to to make yeah two  different  yeah groups of functions . The the simple functions for for the the whole public , and the the advanced options for the younger people yeah who are more yeah experienced with  industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: But  all incorporated in the screen or or just on the remote itself ? user interface: Na I w I should  put  the the yeah the extra advanced options on the onto the onscreen display . marketing: like like you have a visual of the of the brightness with with a kind of sliding bar and a bus and and stuff like that for sound and and vis and and visuals ? project manager: Yeah . So is you should have a menu for all the the functions you don't use regular and which are marketing:  you can make a if you make a drawing . project manager: Yeah we get the marketing: Yeah well , this is basically  it's industrial designer: The remote ? project manager: The remote , yeah ? marketing: alright the remote ?  well usually the power button is on top I guess . user interface: Yeah but if you are using the the normal functions , the the basic functions , you normally press them on the u yeah . So it should be a little bit longer so that you can put your  thumb , also reach the middle . marketing: Okay so y yeah you have you have it in your hand , and the screen is below , and the buttons are in the middle . marketing: Okay for example if you put the screen here , it's more about the functions now than the than the layout . project manager: You want the normal piece of paper ? And you have a pen ? marketing: Yeah . project manager: Yeah ? marketing: Like if you have like  ten buttons for for all the for all the channels , project manager: marketing: So you have up and down for the for the channels , and left and right for the volume  project manager: And left to right . I thought but this is really your department , that we need just the functional display and four cursors . project manager: Yeah okay but this is function so if you can use them for multiple things marketing: And you you have industrial designer: And marketing: most of the time you have one button in the middle . marketing: and then if you press it you the screen gets activated and then you can use these buttons to scroll up and down and left and right to go into functon project manager: marketing: mo most of the time this menu button is also like okay , to to confirm a a kind of action . marketing: Then okay to confirm , and then  on on each on each screen there's there should be an option to go back to a to a upper level . user interface: And do we need a a logo on our  remote control , or marketing: That's more your  your department to to  to project manager: Yeah . But it should be if the screen is here then the logo should be like on on top , user interface: On the left  top yeah . Yeah  the position of the screen is also more essential than  we we look where we have space left and then put the logo over there . marketing: But  Yeah so it should be  if you have it in your hand here , should be on top somewhere , maybe . This would be  industrial designer: Why did we wanna put the display in the bottom ? marketing:  i project manager: No that's not s sure so industrial designer: Okay . marketing: but it's user interface: Yeah may maybe because you're industrial designer: Because yeah if you use the functions your hand will block the display . user interface: Yeah okay but only for the basic functi if you're going to use the advanced option , you're going to press the the menu button and then yeah . marketing: But most most of the times if a if if a T_V_'s on standby people just press a channel to put it on . project manager: Yeah but then it's possible that you cover it with your hand so user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: But if you  if you hold the ma the remote like this , if you put it on the top on the side project manager: Yeah okay . Can we leave this up to you ? user interface: marketing: Yeah it doesn't matter that much . So but  the screen is on top ? Which functions did we have left ?  this is basically numbers , volume ,  channel up and down . project manager: So maybe it , we should decide what advanced options we want to put in the L_C_D_ screen . industrial designer: Yeah so we we needed to integrate the sound and  and image options right ? project manager: Yeah so sounds ? industrial designer: Like  bass  marketing: Yeah . project manager: Yeah user interface: Yeah it it's just a remote control so project manager: and they're industrial designer: Yeah treble , middl middle , bass or something . project manager: Coffee ? marketing:  yeah sound and then within sound I guess treble and bass ? industrial designer: Yes please . marketing: wh why would you use that ? industrial designer: Yeah isn't that that depends on the on the signal of the of what program you're watching . industrial designer: And yeah in the functionality of the user interface: Television  itself  industrial designer: no no of the remote  do do we want  the buttons to make sound when you press them ? As a confirmation or whatever you know ? user interface:  . marketing:  most mobile phones used that in the beginning but user interface: We we could make an option for it , but  you can disable s industrial designer: Under the a yeah advanced option menu you can put those things . marketing: Yeah but people don't want to sit on their knees on their knees in front of their television with only three buttons then it's very hard to project manager:  . project manager:  And the others were in your presentation right ? So I can just copy those ? marketing: Well yeah well I guess that these were the only ones , I guess . project manager: Yeah you have basically a button menu , which you can use directly ,  according to the old principle . project manager: And the L_C_D_ options are activated by some some software options , thats communicates with the infrared  decoder yeah . marketing: Yeah with the chip and then  project manager: So you You have an additional processor and and software part . marketing:  and what you say , channel settings or channel programming ? So you you have an option to to start scanning all the frequencies , and when it encounters one , well it shows on your T_V_ . project manager: Yeah so I've g channel program is autoseek ? marketing: Yeah , autoseek . project manager:  name a channel , or marketing: Well most T_V_s automatically display the name , which they get through the cable . marketing: It only has to match the the channel frequency on your T_V_ , with with the with the position on your T_V_ and and so your remote . Yeah but can you also say I want f  Veronica on the channel number  five or industrial designer: Help . How do you call that ? marketing: Yeah how do you call that ?  ? Wait you you should be able to to browse through a list or something , which w displays all the all the values , all the channels which are possible . marketing: Just browse through it and then  in some kind of way see if it if it if it is programmed .  other functions ? marketing: So you most of the time if you if you swap it S  let's say for example you have  R_T_L_ five on on channel five . And Veronica on channel eight and you want to move Veronica to channel five , most of the times you override the previous  the previous one . project manager: That's you're industrial designer: He only has to figure out how it has to look . project manager: Yeah but also , which buttons you have to press to get a certain result ? industrial designer: And how user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: to use project manager: And the working design was to specify how ph the physical interation between the components was , as I believe . project manager: marketing: Or or is it too hard to to ju to just do it all on your remote ? To programme the channels ? project manager: No I don't think so . project manager: No that's the marketing:  you  you  current channel and then then it just says ,  on which number do you want to save this , and you just press a number on your remote , and then say confirm , okay , and then it's it's saved . It's easier , it's it's it's harder to , if you have already programmed it , to to swap . project manager:  The User Interface Designer can design a menu for all these function I put them on the marketing: Yeah k kind of structure into layers . user interface: On the  yeah can you i make a a map with with all the yeah 'cause it's now there are lots and lots of documents project manager: .  marketing: So project manager: So you design the basic function menu for the L_C_D_ screen ?   I think marketing: And and the layout of of the thing itself . project manager: th I think the yeah the layout of the screen user interface: The the layout of the remote control ? project manager: and I think you can concentrate more on the button placement and the placement of the  screen itself on the marketing: . industrial designer: I have to know what it has to do , so if you wanna you know the changing the channels kind of s thing is , I have to integrate that in the design . user interface: But do I have to to  to yeah to make the the menu layout also ? Or project manager: Yeah . user interface: Yeah ? I I'm going to make project manager: I think i that's your department yes , user interface: yeah o okay . project manager: because w he already knows what industrial designer: Yeah we have to kind of work together . industrial designer: If if I make the the the yeah the menu like , I have to state which function has to be in the menu , project manager: But we're not allowed . user interface: marketing: industrial designer: and then you have to decide , it's , in a in a way that b is user-friendly . Y you you are going to make a list of what functions are  are going to to be on the the screen , the menu screen . project manager: Yeah and also make clear which buttons to press to get certain result , marketing: So some menus . marketing: So it's like the the save button on your your mobile phone , if you have a Nokia or like that . marketing: To go one step back you it's only two extra buttons , user interface: Yeah . W we marketing: but if it if it's very clear that they are for the screen user interface:  I think we have to to group , to make two groups .  the one group for the for the display , and one group for the basic functions , and industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: Yeah but they're incorporated ? Up and down is user interface: Yeah okay but we we have a m marketing: Yeah because this this is used for both . user interface: yeah but maybe that's that's not  project manager: Smart ? user interface: yeah if you're if you're z zapping  with your  yeah remote control , you can press the the menu button , and then you are suddenly into the the yeah the display . marketing: And and just put it under the screen , the screen project manager: Put it on top . user interface: Yeah j just just group group the yeah we make these the advanced functions and these the basic functions . But we should place the screen on top , right ? project manager: Well user interface: F oh yeah . project manager: do we do the extra two buttons or not ? user interface:  industrial designer: I think you should . So we have a a menu button and a s project manager: And to , okay and back , also . Both the L_C_D_ marketing: Should we save this picture , or or you know what it looks like ? user interface: Yeah I'm I'm not s clear about  the the extra two buttons . user interface: Okay so that that's not  Yeah that Those are project manager: Those are both both user interface: multifunctional . industrial designer: Hey is it interesting for users if we put LED lights under the buttons ? So that if you  press on the menu function that only the buttons that are used for the menu are ligh li light up . project manager: Light  marketing: Yeah that's a good idea because then it becomes clear which buttons are active now , which you can use . project manager:  marketing: So project manager: Anything else ? marketing: Those buttons are are lit up . Should we use those two ? Them ? Or only this to to scroll ? project manager: I've marketing: And then use the two functional buttons to confirm , to go into something ? Oh no we have to use this to adjust some some bars ? project manager: Volume . industrial designer: Yeah keep it optional 'cause maybe you can you know go left to right and up and down in a in one menu . user interface: No industrial designer: The pr the problem with the okay button in the middle is , sorry project manager: Yeah okay go ahead . marketing: Yeah ? industrial designer: sorry ,  is  if you're pressing up and down , you can easily press the okay once you , when you're not already at your choice . user interface: Yeah the with with the the channel and the volume  yeah m a multifunctional navigation button . project manager: and then we can work for thirty minutes , and I have to write very fast to make the minich min minutes . user interface: But do we have to write  to write down  the our stuff now ? Or first lunchbreak ? industrial designer: Okay . project manager: marketing: project manager: I think you can put  the laptop back in the room and user interface: 'Kay . marketing: Aye Y you saved it ? Does it save automatically in the project folder ? Or project manager: Yeah . It's it's just my own map so I put everything into the project manager: Yeah yeah yeah . user interface: But you got some extra information  project manager: Yeah that's in the functional design  folder . marketing: industrial designer: So first we have a lunchbreak now ? user interface: project manager: Yeah 