marketing: project manager: A minute please , my  laptop is  oh , there it is , thank you . At the functional design meeting  the plan is  that  each one of you , so not me but only you  will  present  the the things you worked on  the last  half hour . I will  take minutes and will put  the minutes that I have  at the end of the session in the shared folder . Also the minutes of the previous session are also in the shared folder now , so you can read that  now or afterwards .   I had an email from the from the management board marketing: project manager: I don't know if you a al also  received it , but there were four points  which  I think are very important . First one is  they think that  teletext teletext becomes outdated  and internet will be the the main  focus .  the remote control shou should onl only be used for the television , so it  not gonna it's not gonna be a multi-purpose remote control , so  that's one thing to keep in mind . user interface: marketing: project manager:  second , and I think that's important for the Marketing  Expert ,  the current  customers  are in the age group group of  forty years and older , but with this  new remote  they  will  would like to reach  a group  younger than  forty .  and  I think to keep in mind , but not really  for now is that they  want the the the slogan and the and the logo  to  to be recognised more in the remote . marketing: project manager: So , we have  forty minutes , so I think  not more than ten minutes   per presentation  each , and please  use  all the the the facilities so that you have either SMARTboards , the the Word files , what you  whatever you want .  , as you can see here , the market share for the first audience is about sixty percent  sixty five .  and some interests from the from the age groups ,  it seems like the young users of remote controls really like the fancy  new technology stuff , like  an L_C_D_ screen on the remote control ,  speech recognition .  , and when you see  the audience , the age is going up  Yeah , they don't really want it anymore , at least the new technologies . First point is , seventy five percent of the users find the most repo remote controls very ugly ,  and eighty percent of the users would spend more money when a remote control would look fancy .  , persons were asked  what the buttons were  they use most , how much an hour , project manager: Switching channels ,  yeah , that's pretty  pretty normal , that's what you do with a remote control .  , I think it's good  that we know what the user want wants ,  at least the these three points have to be  very clear . project manager: But it's strange that the the manage board the management board said that the teletext will be  outdated by the internet . Yeah , okay , but  at the moment  teletext is Yeah , th the best thing you can get  on T_V_ , like getting information . marketing: So  , when you ask people , what do they use , they use teletext and not the internet on a remote control . marketing: That's a ne i it It's a new technology , project manager: Yeah .  , yeah , people from sixteen to forty five watch a lot of T_V_ , more than  people who are el  elder .  second point , we have to impro improve the most used functions , as I said here , switching channels , teletext and volume controls . Third point  that came out of the  of the questionnaire ,  people used to  get lost off the remote controller , so maybe it's an idea for us  to design ex kind of placeholder  on side of the , yeah , of the T_V_ project manager: Yeah , that's a cool idea . industrial designer: When you mentioned  improving functions , what  what do you mean by that what what are you think about ? marketing:  not not the r not the functions , industrial designer: the funtionability . marketing: but  it came out that a lot of buttons weren't even used  on a remote control . So you can have a remote control full of buttons , a hundreds hundreds of buttons , but if you don't use them , yeah it's project manager: Yeah . marketing: j just to t to get it done if necessary , user interface: marketing: but  the most used buttons  have to be bigger or industrial designer: Could you use perhaps  one button for multiple functions , like example pressing it in longer makes it switch to an different function for example . marketing: Just to get less buttons on the remote control , to make it easier and quicker to learn . Well  what I did was I dissected   current remote controls and  I viewed how how they w looked , how they worked ,  what kind of components are involved , and how they are connected together . And  after that I put up a scheme about how  these things are organised and I'll show it to you in in a in a few seconds . And I'll explain a bit about  how it works and how we could  build one and why I think several possibilities  that we discussed in the earlier meeting falls off .  well what I did was  I I checked  remote controls and the  remote controls of today are all infrared , not like all probably know . And the thing about that is  the remote controls  have to act as a T_V_ or  a stereo or something , and those  have a transmitter that's also focused on infrared , so if we want to  build   a remote control  with Bluetooth for instance then  the T_V_ should have Bluetooth too in order to communicate , so that would mean extra cost for the user and thus  that's that wouldn't mean a a cheap  remote control for us . Furthermore they all have  a a very simple structure , so that would probably  mean lower costs and  i that could mean for us a good thing  'cause  well we we should be able to build a relatively cheap  a cheap  remote . Well  as I mentioned ready , we have some Bluetooth Well it may be possible , but  I figured it wouldn't be possible in within our budget , but that's not for me to decide , but that's maybe something for marketing to look into . F because  well my personal opinion is  is not to do  Bluetooth or or radio waves , although marketing: What do you think about  incorporating Bluetooth or a radio  receiver  in the place-holder next to the T_V_ , connected to the T_V_ ? industrial designer: Yeah , actually I have t marketing: So it's in the wrong product . Yeah , I actually I figured that would be that would be rather nice , but then you'd still have the  the infrared function . industrial designer: but  what I did  think about was when you mentioned about the  the cup-holder , is why not  introduce a speech function like where is the remote . If somebody says , where is the remote , then it goes  beep  beep beep beep or something , user interface: marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: I dunno , maybe  maybe something to look into , I dunno  what the cost that something like that would be . I figured that would be best , 'cause when the battery  stops functioning  we could just  use you could just go out and buy a new one . So we didn't and we don't have to do all  to be too complicated about that .  the energy source is connected to the infrared button , but  the infrared button  works only via the chip and the subcomponent to  the switch there is a switch  between these . When the switch is pressed in a w on this this case it switches a button , when a button is prush pushed in ,  a electric current goes through here , and in  immediately , a l a bulb lights up  displaying to the user that something has happened . That's  that's so the h user won't be  thinking , well  did the button be pressed , w what happened  . Or I press button but nothing's happening on the T_V_ , so is is something wrong or something .  w well the signal goes via chip that's translated into  electric sig  electronic signals and then it's processed and then it's sent to the infrared bulb where it will be   received on the receiving end . Not too many  gadgets and functions , just like you said  well the most users n  you have a lot of buttons and you u u use you don't use them , so why why should we invent  w spend more time on those . So I think we shouldn't be  spending time on  teletext and st things like that , because when you  want teletext on  infrared you'd have to build in a receiver too , and so in order to receive the signals from  what's on T_V_ and such . So I figure that would be  spending too much money and time and marketing: yeah , maybe another problem  , I think current T_V_s can even send infrared . industrial designer: Yes , but what should we  s I I I f I agree with you , but should we spend money or and time on building a receiver into the  remote control ? marketing: Huh . Like I said ,  use one button for instance for m multiple functions , or well  just hide the few buttons o of switching it open or something , the usual  stuff . And  don't overbuild , we shouldn't make a big  remote control for simple functions , but we we should stick to the basics . project manager: Tim and  Janus don't  talk to ten minutes , industrial designer: project manager: so  take your time . user interface: marketing: project manager: If you take your time too long I will  eventually  industrial designer: project manager: warn you . user interface: marketing: user interface: Well , I'm going to give a presentation abut some of the technical functions of these design and  usability functions . project manager: user interface:  what's my opinion about what's most important to combine the design , technical possibilities and the user friendliness in one , so if you  going to design a remote that looks good , that shouldn't weigh over the  if it's possible to make , of course , but also the user friendliness , so tha that's that's some of the main points . And another one is  the use  of many functions will will make it more difficult , so use as as little functions as possible or at least don't display them all at once on the same remote . If you have fifty functions you don't want fifty buttons  t  to be shown at the same time , marketing:  . user interface: 'cause when you visit an internet  site you don't want fifty links  to see , but maybe use a hierarch hierarchy  structure . marketing: user interface: And  well one of the ideas was maybe  use touch screen , but s I don't know in how far that is possible , marketing:  . user interface: since we are sticking to   infrared and and the remote cannot receive anything , but  we might  consider that . If you you can use remote like this with all the functions , many functions , but Well , your thumb is a little bigger than th it than this . You have to be very careful what you push , marketing: user interface: and  if you're looking for teletext you'll be  searching for half an hour from   yeah well , where is it ? Where the hell he here I guess and , yeah , when you have to  use something else .  well this was because of our last discussion , if multiple machines are used , create easy switch between the machines , but  it's no longer  applying . Well yeah , I prefer to use it only for T_V_ and  n  not to give too many options and and if possible ,  the buttons should give a dr direct action , not first select project manager:  you you just said   you wanted to to combine more functions in one , so  user interface: Yeah , project manager: you you want to keep it simple , user interface: and so that's where the difficulties lie . industrial designer: Yeah , but project manager: but I think that if you want to do that , then you can't escape the the fact that there will be buttons  which give s  more options than one . Yeah , but user interface: Do we want to use a few options and might not be so or original , or  multi-purpose as we thought , project manager: marketing:  it's maybe an option  if you use an L_C_D_ or a touch screen  , that in the middle are the the main keys , like displayed on the user interface: marketing:  yeah . Okay , just  in the middle the general functions , like play ,  channel switching , user interface: Yeah . marketing: and then  at the top or at the bottom , some menus like  settings or that you can drop down . user interface: Yeah , but when all the questions I had Do we want to use  a menu display on the T_V_ ? Or  does have to f everything  be in remotes ? 'Cause if you use a memory display on the T_V_ , you can simply push  a more menu and then select the options you want to have and press okay . user interface:  so that's my recommendation , if you use many options in one buttle button ,  display the menu on the T_V_ marketing: Nah . user interface: and don't  use combination of t of two buttons at the same time or pressing buttons three times for five seconds , marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: Yeah , but marketing: I think so too , but and that's partly because   a lot of T_V_s have different menus , and when you have a particular menu  at your device ,  it could be that don't correspond to the menu what's actually on T_V_ . industrial designer: you d you have to keep in mind that  several T_V_s  don't even have a menu structure , or they have a very simple menu structure , so you have to keep in mind that not all  d not our remote won't be able to work on all televisions . user interface: So if we have to stick with current technologies and   well yeah , the restrictions of what's  is on the market today ,  you should keep it s at this .  especially the important buttons ,  if you want to switch channel , change your volume ,  use teletext , it  it has to work at once and more advanced options may be put it s somewhere away on the remote , behind  a little  little thing or a touch screen . industrial designer: Not embed Yeah , but then with something like a touch screen could could make more menu up pop up or something . user interface: And yeah , if you want to   s put on stand-by or change the channel , that should always be possible to do . If the user is pushing a button he should know if the television or n at least remote is reacting and not just that the batteries may be low . So  maybe we should just ease down on the functionality to  to keep it accessible on t because you all know , if there are a lot of function on the the television , some you you'll never know  and never use , and therefore it's  important marketing: Yeah . user interface: if you want to change the volume or channel that is always accessible and easy and other functions  that are not so important  well you we should consider just not using them or at least putting them somewhere on the remote where they're not in the way for the for the most important functions .  , they have like a touch screen with  really big pictures on it like   call  hang-up ,  and that's a big ad advantage I think , because one the one hand  you make the remote control compatible for elder users just by  scaling up the pictures or something . user interface: and for some design issues  well , put a logo on it and maybe use it  in some aesthetic  aesthetic form . project manager: user interface: But  th the important buttons m make them always accessible and pushable and clear industrial designer: user interface: and maybe use a touch screen , or if that's  will become too difficult just  like televi some o older telephones use a l  maybe it's possible to to flip them open and  just expand the number of options that are normally visible .  marketing: Yeah okay , but but if you pick the the idea , the left idea user interface: Yeah . marketing: then what's gonna be displayed on the touch screen ? industrial designer: The extra functions . user interface: The extra functions , you  you just see a menu from system functions or teletext functions , and you just choose one , marketing: Yeah , but l like menu functions or industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: Wouldn't it be better to make just one big touch screen ,  one one small  touch screen  applet marketing: Yeah , I think so . industrial designer: and  I'll just make   let's say fifteen buttons on it , and  we have three of those ,  actually just  menus with sub-menus , with or sub-items , sub-functions . industrial designer: You just have a f a few selected buttons and  a few menus , and with this idea you could actually make  several you can also improve  later on . project manager: So you think it's will be better to have a t kinda total touch screen . industrial designer: Yeah , I wou I would actually go for the project manager: Jirun ? user interface: Okay , I agree , but I think it's very important that they always  make the same buttons accessible , so use just for special options a part of the touch screen . user interface: an elder parents or grandparent picks up the remote from the little child and who's all in the systems functions , you'll have to have the possibility to turn off the T_V_ or to switch the channel without  well using all the menu structures to get back to the primary functions . marketing: like building in  some kind of PIN code  which allows  parents to switch to all channels ,  user interface: Yeah . marketing: but children  if children don't don't know the PIN code , they can't switch to  violent  channels or user interface: Yeah wh Is that possible to use or no ? industrial designer: That is possible , that well that actually depends on the television , marketing: Th there's just user interface: Well , yeah well , industrial designer: but I think I figure that would be user interface: does it have to depend on the television ? marketing: Ju just a simple log-in , something like that . industrial designer: y you s you see the fi  thing is when you buy a remote , you you set the  channels , the the channels are different on each te television , marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: so  if you  lock on a remote ,  let's say channel fifteen , well channel fifteen on this television is different than channel fifteen on the other television , marketing: user interface: Well , I think that he means that  maybe by some option  make sure that  remote control and the T_V_ match , and then after that you can  use some s insert some passwords as being apparent that the children cannot use this  change the settings of the T_V_ , like colour and then volume marketing: Yeah . user interface: and  marketing: Yeah , th that kind of stuff , but maybe  if you log in first as a parent  , you address the the channels user interface: marketing: and like  oh , that's channel fifteen , that's  vi violent channel , user interface: Oh , something like that . marketing:  m my ki my kids  I don't want my kids to watch that , industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: then you set the priority to only parents , industrial designer: project manager: Okay , yeah . user interface: Well b but make it a separate option in the menu , industrial designer: Yeah , that would b marketing: for example . user interface: so that it's it's dif dis displayed from  displayed here , marketing: Yeah okay , but but yeah , that's just user interface: so  parents  marketing: that's an a an added feature . But let's not  go too wide about the those things , that's that why we're here . project manager: It's it's a nice idea , but I think that's we wel later in the stage . project manager: yeah , a partial ,  because I think  elderly people may be  not used to  a touch screen , so they want the the the normal functions like teletext , volume changing ,   to be  , yeah , kinda traditionals marketing: Yeah . project manager:  and  the the the the other functions , the more difficult functions  to be  maybe on the touch screen , marketing: marketing: Yeah , but but if you display it on L_C_D_ screen with r r really big numbers user interface: Yeah , you can de display it on the on the old style . industrial designer: because well , it's just not the same when you touch a touch screen user interface: Yeah , okay . industrial designer: or when you touch a button , but well we have to look at what's our target  audience . industrial designer: W we are aiming for younger people project manager: Yeah , that's true , yeah . industrial designer: So that's that's probably  a marketing: And th those young people , yeah . Y you saw it in my marketing report , they like the new fancy stuff , project manager: marketing: so A touch screen , like Microsoft al already developed something like that for   multi-media applications . project manager:  I've  added the this  four things from the management board just to keep in mind . project manager:  each time I  I had a sort of  summary on what you told and  what you personal think .  th the the main points in  this   in this  meeting is I think  how  it's going to look  with  we must keep it simple , but have the opportunity to  have more options and have them  hidden or something , so they don't  you don't have a big  thing full of  buttons or   and  the point that  you  wanna use one  controller  for   hypothetically each television , so you must  the the the the functions , know , like the menus or the the parental control must be all  by the done by the remote control and not by the television . The menus  are not identical for all th for all T_V_s , so you have to display it on one  T_V_ . user interface: Well you can use  when you  how do you call it , s  synchronized , the  remote and the T_V_ , marketing: Yeah , but that's not possible . user interface: then there's always , there are always  possibilities to change the colour and the brightness and the volume marketing: - ,  yeah . user interface: and  well maybe we can look out if there's options that the remote  in its memory can see what kinda T_V_ it is , from ah , it's a Philips , this and this and that , and then give the options that are capable the capable from the t project manager: Yeah , but you have   an marketing: Add th that that's an opportunity . project manager: yeah , but you have an international market range , so you have I think a big range of user interface: Well there are universal d   remotes project manager: Yeah . user interface: and they all have a functionality for all the T_V_s ,  so this wouldn't be a extra feature to incorporate the men menus of these . industrial designer: But they marketing: But project manager: And it's not too complex to do it . user interface: industrial designer: Well they  they all have to be programmed to fit your T_V_ marketing: No . industrial designer: I actually use one of those when They are they are kinda kinda troublesome , but but the thing is whe when you  start  building something like this you have to build a receiver into the  t into the remotes , because  in order for the remote to process something from the T_V_ , like  to synchronise and you have to send and receive , user interface: Yeah . user interface: no , you can just say  the c marketing: He he he he me he means just just one other thing . marketing: with the current remote controls , the universal ones ,  you have to press yeah , you have to press a code for T_V_ . industrial designer: Oh , okay , yeah , sure ,  user interface: and you press code four five five on the  in the remote industrial designer: Yeah yeah yeah . Now we  just connect  the T_V_ type  to a set of options , in just just in the memory , user interface: Memory in the in the remote . marketing: so that if you yeah , like profile , so that if you  touch in like  one four one zero kind of T_V_  industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: I th don't think that's  that takes a lot of storage space or some just varia variables . industrial designer: No , that wouldn't be  user interface: Yeah , well  industrial designer: Yeah , a few variables . user interface: if you look at the  manuals from universal  remotes , there are maybe  three four hundreds T_V_s at maximum . If you have all of them , all the old and new T_V_s summed up , marketing: It is definitely po marketing: But , on the other hand on the other hand ,  if you have a remote and buy a new T_V_ that isn't incorporated in the remote project manager: We have five minutes to go . Well then you have to buy a new one , it's very good for marketing marketing: New remote ? user interface: Maybe , or an update , software update . marketing: maybe we can incorporate some kind of  U_S_B_ or a firewire connection , so that you can  connect it to the P_C_ and download the newest firmware from  from the internet . Well the most most people have , user interface: Well , at industrial designer: but not not everybody user interface:  you can go back to the shop industrial designer: and user interface: and  they marketing: Yeah , industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: Yeah , ser o industrial designer: Yeah , maybe something like service cen marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: Or you could well you could s actually look at the place-holder you talked about earlier , user interface: Well already digital information is sent t to the the standards , T_V_  connections , industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: you can see what's  programme is on on the new  channels , so maybe j they we can send that information along with standard T_V_  industrial designer: Well then then it's be  back to the building a receiving  well  if it's actually worth it to build it in , user interface: Receiving . industrial designer: but I dunno , it it would be  bringing more costs  with with it user interface: Difficult . industrial designer: and marketing: I I think it's  most cheap or cheapest to just do the updates  at the service centre or at the shop . industrial designer: Like when you when you buy a T_V_ you just ask well I'll marketing: It's it's it's not a lot of work , just one  docking station where you put it in , industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: marketing: And your vote ? user interface: Well , I was  doubting about which one to take , but  you've convinced me that  if you di display buttons about the same as they would look on a normal  remote all elderly people will know what to do . user interface: Break it , I don't get marketing: Yeah , th th th that i  Yeah .  I will put my minutes  I have updated them so  s they're updated in the shared folder too . marketing: Thirty minutes ? project manager: Thirty minutes , the marketing: How minutes ? project manager: Failure .   the specifi  specific instructions for the next  meeting you will all will receive  at the  the the email . I don't think I can  say much about it , so   wait for your email and  hopefully you get it done  in the in the thirty minutes , and I w will see you after the lunch break and the thirty minutes . marketing: One question , project manager: Yeah ? marketing:  how late do we have to get back be back here ? project manager:  well  thirty minutes . Thank you ,  that was a very  good session I think , user interface: industrial designer: project manager: we  we user interface: Yeah , is it possible to store this on the share documents or what marketing: Yeah , me too . project manager: Yeah , because  all  things are  stored in smart board dot  X_D_K_ marketing: Yeah , v project manager: and that's in marketing: But but you can open a from your pr from your laptop . user interface: Oh yeah , it's not connected to the project manager: You all  have the the questionnaire again about  the after work . user interface: The questionnaire , fill in  we fill out d after lunch or  project manager:  well , it's it's simply filling oh no , it's  it's also filling out no , I'd do it after lunch I think . user interface: We can leave the P_C_ on I think , yeah and return to the marketing: Yeah , of course . industrial designer: marketing: To my exave executive project manager: My executive  big room with the with the panting 