industrial designer: Should I bring my  pen too ? project manager: Yeah just yeah , no , industrial designer: Or project manager: that's for me , I just have to make some notes . marketing: Can you hear me ? Hello ? project manager:  actually my laptop doesn't work , marketing: Test . So  the thing we have to know is you already know what we're going to do , you also read what this the things or , not yet , user interface: Yes . So  , yeah , it has to be original , trendy , user-friendly that's what we're going to design . We have to look what the needs are , the effects of the functional design , and and how the  the the remote control works , so that's where we're going to look in the functional design , it's for the f next meeting . The the second thing is the conceptual design , that's what it that's  the spe the specifications of the components and the properties and the specifications of the user interface . And we have to look what  the market is doing for what kind of  remote controls are in the market . And the third thing is  the detailed design  and that's exa yeah , you know what it is , it's exactly how it looks and whatever . Okay so  no , this is a these are two smartboards , with the  f  s an introduction of that one . And you already saw you know all that that you here can put  things in the the red project  map . You have to  draw  a favourite animal on the whiteboard marketing: project manager: and  and say why it's your favourite animal . So and you have this is just to try it out and we have to  use a different pen colours and different thickness of the pen . So okay , so first have to show you , maybe you can come here to have a look how it works . project manager: I just h industrial designer: project manager: Something like this ? Oh no marketing: It look like a dinosaurs . project manager: Okay , so just for you guys just one of you can draw a painting if you want . Okay and then  what's the colour ? How do I do project manager: It's in format .  there has to be water , project manager: Just marketing: but project manager: No it has to be an animal , so if that's it's it should be a shna snake or something . marketing: Yeah yeah , but it's an animal it's an animal that lives in the water . marketing: Okay , who next ?  project manager:  do you have to write down why  that doesn't matter , just it's to get used to the whiteboard , but it's okay . project manager: Maybe you should hold your pen a bit more to the back , so that no , to the yeah . industrial designer: user interface:  industrial designer: marketing: A sheep ? project manager:  we d only have twenty five minutes , so . project manager: Just hold it more more to the back then you don't have user interface: No project manager: okay . project manager: I thought these pens would be just   you write it down and you download it to Word , you already did it or no ? No , not yet , okay . user interface: Yeah , that's right , project manager: But it's just user interface: it but you actually got to write on the paper . project manager: Yeah , I know , but I d I I thought it would be just in in in  typed words in Word , marketing: Yeah yeah , it's a real pen . project manager: so that's not user interface: Yeah , but it's just a picture . user interface: You really marketing: Y you can you can't edit in the edit it in Word . project manager: industrial designer: marketing: project manager: I don't know , what time did we start this meeting , I'm not sure . marketing: project manager: Oh industrial designer: marketing: project manager: this is definitely the best one . project manager: Okay , so  what we know is that we have to sell this  remote control for about twenty five Euros . And  we have to make a profit of fifty million Euros , so we have to  use a big market in Europe . project manager: So can someone make a a calculation about how many we have to sell of these to make fifty million , I dunno .  so we're gonna have a little discussion about  what experience are with a remote control the and everything , so just have a look how it we think about remote controls . marketing: Yeah , my first question was does it have to be a a universal remote control ? project manager: Oh yeah , that's a good question . marketing: Because we sell it    lonely from the t and not with the television , we sell it  apart . project manager: I think it's I'm not I'm not sure , marketing: So I project manager: it's not  I think industrial designer: Yeah , it probably would be universal . marketing: Because user interface: And only television ? Or more devices ? project manager: I don't think you can buy a a a universal  remote control for twenty five Euros , so not sure , but industrial designer: maybe , I don't know . marketing: Yeah , I know  you can buy a re a universal  control for  only twenty  Euros project manager: Okay , so we we just say we just say that's universal remote control . industrial designer: And  also for the V_C_R_ and  D_V_D_ player project manager: Yeah , everything industrial designer: and project manager: just so a lot of buttons on the remote control . project manager: what what what's a remote control , it's just a black thing with some buttons on it , it's not nothing very special , but  user interface: Well we can try to make it special . industrial designer: marketing: project manager: So do you have any ideas how it has to look for for usability or user user interface: Well marketing: Well I th I thought about  making it the same  style as the television , we don't have  the same television  all the time , so  that's no matter .  if we  control the V_C_R_ and the D_V_D_ player player with it  it has to be clear , because  kids and  elderly are gonna use it , so  it's not only for the  technical persons .  I think it must be a very good control , so you can    act  use it from  everywhere in your room , the the infrared  thing must be from very good quality . user interface: It shouldn't be too big , marketing: I dunno  user interface: but I don't think we can make it too small , 'cause it has to have a lot of functions , so . user interface: Maybe then you can make it s smaller and uniquer , marketing: Yes user interface: maybe more trendy . user interface: Fold open , project manager: Okay , user interface: where you can see  more options . Maybe for the D_V_D_ pla player or something , industrial designer: Yeah marketing: Ah industrial designer: n marketing: that's that's project manager: if you just user interface: Yeah , something  on top , just dren general things like volume and T_V_ channels and inside things you don't use that often . project manager: Why should you use a touchscreen on a remote control ? industrial designer:  maybe be  it's it's project manager: There are buttons on it . user interface: But that's industrial designer:  like a a to have marketing: Yeah , but user interface: Yeah , I think it's much  too expensive . project manager: marketing: And we have to care for  the strength of the remote control , project manager: Yeah . marketing: because   remote controls are most  things in the house that falls down on the ground and it get often  broken . marketing: Yeah and a lots   lots of kids use it and touchscreen is not  kids  project manager: No . industrial designer: And  how about the batteries ? marketing:  industrial designer:  should you put it in a recharger or a just project manager: Oh maybe that's a good idea , marketing: Ma maybe a home station . project manager: just to put it on your television and just s recharge , user interface: Yeah . user interface: Maybe that's a good idea , but yeah , we have to look at the price now I think . project manager: Yeah , how m how mu how how expensive  is a normal recharger ? marketing: Yeah . user interface: Well  how much is your  standards  mobile phone recharger ? project manager: I dunno . industrial designer: Yeah , if you buy it  separately from your phone it's probably expensive , project manager: marketing: Ah yeah . marketing: user interface: Maybe have  marketing: project manager:  if you th look at the market , it's probably it's still the best way just to put batteries in it , because maybe it's too expensive . marketing: Yeah , but a home station is  a really good idea , because  lots of people are  lose their remote control and don't know where it is , project manager: Yeah , that's right , yeah . marketing: Maybe it's Therefore it's a good idea , but maybe it's expensive . industrial designer: Yeah , but I have a mouse that's   also  user interface: Rechargeable . industrial designer: Yeah , and and you just have normal batteries that you can recharge and just put it in the station , user interface: Yeah . marketing:  I I set something on paper already , size , looks ,  usable ,  the buttons on usable places ,  the the on off button must be on top , project manager: Yeah . marketing: you you have to  project manager: Has it be has does it has to b have to be   like a different form than a normal remote control marketing: Yeah , I don't I don't know I don't know project manager: or user interface: Well I think we have to look at that , marketing: if we user interface: 'cause well you can do the standard way , but then you won't marketing: You can make it very special , to create our own  looks , project manager: Yeah marketing: but it's very hard to industrial designer: N  if if we want to make it special , we probably have to do a lot of testing , if it really works . user interface: Well you can  have  the basic things on the same place , like on off button on top and the T_V_ channels one two three four as a block , and then the volume  obviously on t on top , so you can see . user interface: But the rest is  you don't use that often , so if you have a clear button with an good icon on it , it should be clear as well . user interface: So it doesn't matter what place it is on the remote control I think , industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: And what we have to think about too is   buttons that you use often are  maybe  like when you fold it open , when you have it closed , you can still  do the th the functions . project manager: Yeah , just for the T_V_ and just the normal function , that's fine . marketing:  on on top are the the basic options on top , industrial designer: But n user interface: Yeah , yeah . industrial designer: yeah , but  i basically when I'm watching T_V_ I'm just using like five buttons or so , marketing: and if you fold it open project manager: But maybe it's user interface: Yeah . project manager: maybe it's very hard to to make it fold open and to l look like it's very   what's it's called ? marketing:  . If you if if you make to fold open it's or also an  the strength  is not s as good as a normal  remote control . project manager: Maybe it's hard t user interface:  project manager: No , that's right . marketing:  for m for me  the Marketing Expert , the user requirements  specification , do I need to think as a user , a as a a a only the looks and the user interface: No , what you want to do with it . project manager: Yeah , I think this if you you have to n know if it's for s a T_V_ , a D_V_D_ player , all that things . user interface: Yeah , I also wrote down some stuff project manager: Yeah , user interface: that you want on a project manager: no maybe not not  , that's not a f that's something for for for yeah . project manager: what's in the market , what's normal ,  what kind of  buttons do you have . user interface: What do you want to do with your remote control , what do you need on your remote control . project manager: For the next time you have to  put it exactly on the square , so your laptop 