The opening , which we are doing now ,  and the special note , I'm project manager but on the meetings I'm also the secretary , which means I will make  minutes as I did of the previous meeting . industrial designer: project manager: And  I also put these as fast as possible in the  project folder , so you can see them and review what we have discussed .  if I'm right , there are three presentations , I guess each one of you has prepared one ? Good . project manager: And  we will also take a look at new project requirements ,  if you haven't heard about them yet . And then of course we have to take a decision on the remote control functions and we have some more time , forty minutes . marketing: Well , shall I go first with the users ? user interface: Well marketing: I think well okay no problem . project manager: Is there an order ? I haven't user interface: everybody already has his presentation , marketing: Ja precies , ja precies , ja precies user interface: so you can adjust it . Huh ? Okay ,  project manager: And one question ,  your name Denni , is it with a marketing: E_I_E_ .  when you press a button ,  that's when you do pr for example when you  want to turn up the volume ,  a little connection is made  the the rubber  button just presses on a project manager: Sorry . marketing: user interface: industrial designer: on a little print plate  which  makes   a connection that  gives the chips ,  which is  mounted beneath those  that plastic of a rubber button .  senses that a connection has been made , and know and knows what button you pressed , becau  for example the the volume up or volume down button .   the the chip  makes a Morse code  like  signal which  then is si  signalled to  several transistors which makes  which sends the signal to a little let .  the findings   that I found  searching up some  detailed information about the remote controls , are that  they are very easy to produce ,  it is pis  it's possible to  make them in mass production because it is as eas it is as easy as  printing a page ,  just  fibreglass plate  is b  is  covered with  some  coatings and   and chips . user interface: industrial designer:  and the technology's already available , we don't have to find out how remote controls  have to work or  how that how  to make some chips that are possible to  to to transmit those  signals . project manager: Yeah , it's a little bug it's in the in the smart board .  well user interface: industrial designer: the sub-component , I suppose that you understand what a sub-component is , is f in this example it's the button .  when it is pressed down , the switch is ter is  is switched on , so with  the wire is sent to the to the chip in  co-operation with the battery of course , because to make  a a signal possible you have to have some sort of  li  a d ad  electronic  user interface: marketing: Infrared light .  w after it's being composed by the chip  the signal  is transported  to the infra-red bulb , and from there it signals a Morse code-like signal to the to the b to the bulb in  in the television set . Of course it is very handy if the remote control is hand held , so you don't have to   wind it up or something , or just is it's it's very light to  to make  to use it .  I personally  pref prefer that  it would be p  come available in the various colours , and  easy to use buttons . industrial designer: And it is possible for several designs and  easy to use b  sorry , easy to use buttons . Perhaps soft touch ,  touch screen  buttons because  the rubber buttons are always   they  slightly  they can be slightly damaged , marketing: industrial designer:  so the numbers on the buttons are not possible  to read anymore . industrial designer: Okay , well , that's my contribution to this meeting , and  marketing: To this meeting . user interface: Well  , my name's , and I looked at  technical functions design of the remote .  I did this by  looking at examples of other remote controls , of how they  they look , and information from the web that I found .  well what I found was that  th the actual use of the remote control is to send messages to television set , how you  d what you described  just early . And this can be all sorts of medsa messages , turn it on , turn it off ,  change the channel , adjust volume , that kind of thing .  play video , teletext , but also t  play C_D_ if you use it your C_D_ player the remote control will that one . The one has got all the functions that you could possibly need and an lot of  buttons etcetera . And  not n all the the the the stuff you can do with it , but  the the essential stuff is there .  I guess you could better y you should look at a a user centred  approach , because the customers have to use them and and if they don't think it's usable they won't  buy it .  , well perf personal preferences is is  a simple remote , with  the basic functions that you can need that you could use . But  keep in mind the new functions of T_V_ what we discussed earlier , split screen and  is that a function that you should have ? Because all the T_V_s will have them . And then  make it I would make so that you can could  use it on more than one appliance . If you have one that   does with the vi the the video , it could also work with  with the stereo , because play is play and stop stop and that sort of thing . The shu c you could reuse the buttons so that you don't have to have a lot of buttons for  anything . We're going to j discuss the functional requirements of the remote , that m that means that functions user n want to have on the remote control , or just Yeah , and the users , actually . industrial designer: marketing: The methods I I prefer is we're going to look which section of the users we are going to focus a l on more . Are the younger people going to buy the remote control or the elderly people ? And then tho that section we're going to focus and adjust the remote more to that section than the whole user section . Younger people , from sixteen to thir forty five  years are more interested in fj features like L_C_D_ screens , speech recognition e etcetera . The elderly people , from forty five years to sixty five years are not that much interested in features , and we possess less than two third , that's two fifth , of the market share in that area . industrial designer: marketing: So we don't have to make it very small , like  like a mobile phone or something , but some somewhat bi bigger than small , so you don't lose it that much anymore . marketing: and fif seventy five of the users zap a lot , so the buttons sh should be that small , or shouldn't be that complex because we have to search for the buttons , which one are you going to use . Remote control has to have to have a low power usage , because s w seventy five percent of the users only zap one time an hour , so the power usage is also one one time an hour , or so , with a high power usage we would use a lot of but batteries . The volume button and the channel buttons are the two most important buttons on the remote control , so those they those have to h be find very easily . So  if that's k  if that's the problem , you also have to find it easily on the remote . L_C_D_ screen is easy because we have the L_C_D_ screen , we have the various options . Put one option and then you have the all the buttons of that options , so the other options would be gone . So L_C_D_ screens should be easy , but an L_C_D_ screen , the problem with the L_ sc L_C_D_ screen is that elderly people fr from forty five to for sixty five years don't use the L_C_D_ screen a lot . So we have to that keep that in mind that if you're going to implement L_C_D_ screen , you don't have to make it that hard to learn or to use . industrial designer:  L_C_D_ screen as in  touch screen ? marketing: Yeah , touch screen , yeah . marketing: So we have to keep in mind to to focus not a lot not that much on the younger pep younger people , but also somewhat on the elderly people . And on my personal preferences , I don't have any mo more time to come with that , user interface: marketing: but like I said , L_C_D_ screen is easily to use industrial designer: marketing: because you have you can implement a lot of buttons in one remote with not that much buttons . Especially the volume buttons , the channel buttes buttons and the number buttons to zap through the channels . project manager: then I think it's a good thing that I made a separate slide of them marketing: Ja , project manager: so you can all read them . project manager: So that's  the first thing we I think we should pay less attention to  teletext .  the remote control should only be used for the television , otherwise the project becomes more complex , which endangers the time to market , and of course would make it more costly , I think .  our current customers are within the age group of forty plus , and new product should reach a new market with customers that are younger than forty , and you talked about that before . And  a last point , but also very important , our corporate image should stay recognisable in our products , which means that our  corporate colour and slogan must be implemented in the new design . So , who has any idea about what should be on it , and what shouldn't ? user interface: Well you said it should only  work with one appliance ? marketing: Be television . user interface: And the video also , or not  ? project manager: Well it says only for television here , huh . user interface: Then it should have  on , off , industrial designer: Yeah for user interface: and  industrial designer: Standby options , marketing: Yeah , the basics then by a volume , channel , one till two zero numbers on it , industrial designer: yeah ?  yeah . And per perhaps  marketing: oh teletext doesn't have to be ? user interface: No . user interface: Well   yes yes s sh A button where you can  change from one number to two numbers . user interface: Don't know if that's got a name , industrial designer: Yeah I understand what you mean . user interface: but marketing: I think it's I think it's easy to implement a button with a s s what which especially do that , because some T_V_s , if you press the t one and then the two , it be between five secs it make twelve , industrial designer: It makes it twelve , yeah . marketing: and that's that's not relaxed industrial designer: Well , not really marketing: to user . industrial designer: d  wh the Philip's television makes it possible in that indeed to  press one and then two to make  the  tj to reach channel twelve . industrial designer: But  all the television makes  use of those button where you first press that button and then press two digits to  to get marketing: Yeah . marketing: Our main targets' age are ? were ? Forty five plus , or ? user interface: Mute misschien also . project manager: new product should reach a market with customers that are younger than forty , and now we have current customers  of forty plus . marketing: Forties , okay because because younger people as  younger people have now , sixteen till to twenty five age , are f eighty one percent interested in L_C_D_ screen . From twenty six to thirty five have sixty six percent , and thirty six to forty five , fifty five percent , so I think to  Because on most recog remote controls  the print plate will be broken how much , two years . marketing: With the L_C_D_ screen it's easier because you only have to wipe the screen to  for fingerprint , industrial designer: Yeah , we we could yeah . user interface: marketing: industrial designer: But  Well  is it possible to make an L_C_D_ screen  , how was the information ? marketing: Yeah , it only says that this perce percentage like L_C_D_ screen . user interface: But , do you industrial designer: Yeah but  will we not  exceed our  our  production  marketing: Yeah you don't know how much it costs . Yeah , you don't know how much it costs , the L_C_D_ screen . industrial designer: Is it possible to find out , anyway ? marketing: No , I don't have any costs here , industrial designer: You know ? marketing: I only have percentages . user interface: But if you would do an L_C_D_ screen do we have don don't you have any buttons ? Or because if it only directs at the T_V_ , then you only have  I don't know what you want to do with the L_C_D_ screen . industrial designer: No , an L_C_D_ screen's just like  like a drawn here .  just  displays several buttons , user interface: Yeah ? industrial designer: for example  if you wanted the minimal  use b  buttons , such as channel and volume , you just h  displays four buttons on the screen user interface: Oh right , so you can industrial designer: and it's possible to p  press them down , just like a touch screen . marketing: Yeah , if you want to adjust , like for example , adjust the audio settings , you press audio on the touchscreen industrial designer: Yeah yeah . project manager: So we're going for an L_C_D_ screen ? user interface: Yeah . marketing: I think it's the most easier thing , industrial designer: That's my  project manager: And hoping that when we produce a lot it won't be too expensive . user interface: Any guesses ? industrial designer: marketing: industrial designer: Well I suppose wi if the mar if our  if the i if the young people are interested in L_C_D_ screens , we should make 'em . industrial designer: And if that is our d  market share to  and our goal to  deliver those  remote controls user interface: But But he also said that we should not only focus on the younger people , but also on the older , and will they use it if it only has an L_C_D_ screen ? marketing: Yeah , but  , s forty six to forty five , thirty three percent , and sixty fifty six to sixty five twelve percent . user interface: Oh , so still a little bit people marketing: But our our our what's it , project requirements are the new products should be reached for new markets , to customers that are younger than forty . But you don't want to alienate the other  marketing: No , that not now , but , so user interface: But if they also buy it then it's alright . marketing: Yeah , but market share fro for for forty years and younger is higher than that of sixty five and younger . project manager: Okay , so L_C_D_ it is ? user interface: An Yes . project manager: And what else ? industrial designer: I hope we  h and let's hope to reach those  those sales . marketing: Yeah , i i if it Yeah , if it costs gets too much , too expensive , then yeah , we should be sticking to rubber buttons . industrial designer: Yeah , can you   s I think that that they will send you some information about  the cost of L_C_D_  screens . user interface: But perhaps later , industrial designer:  so if you  user interface: so  industrial designer: Yeah , so if you  you receive an email about that ,  can you post it in the or shouldn't we post that in  our projects mail  folder . industrial designer: I  user interface: Well perhaps we should have a backup plan that we would use buttons if it's  too expensive . industrial designer: user interface: The L_C_D_ ? Oh that's a bit of a problem . marketing: Yeah , and eighty percent of the users would spend more money with a when a remote would look fancy . marketing: Yeah , just a the plain remotes , not not specific L_C_D_ remotes . project manager: Yeah , and maybe you can make something fancy out of an L_C_D_ remote , marketing: So project manager: because it's new , as far as I know . marketing: And then you have the other thing , that seventy five percent zap a lot , but that's not a f question with the L_C_D_ screen . marketing: Only thing you have to do is wipe the screen off once each time , to get all the fingerprints off it . Okay ? project manager: Okay , what else does our remote need ? user interface: A mute button . And marketing: The most important things on a f on an on an  remote control are channel selection , volume con selection , industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: But But shouldn't you put a button of for teletext on the for the people who want to use it ? marketing: Other things are Sorry ? user interface: Remembering we have got a big remote that you have to fill . Yeah , and we could make an a a separate menu on the L_C_D_  screen for teletext . industrial designer: And there's also a marketing: And other other less important things are screen settings , audio settings , and channel settings , user interface: Yeah , they are less important , but I think they should be there , marketing: Less important . user interface: or not ? marketing: Yeah , should be there , industrial designer: A sh marketing: but not press industrial designer: but in a sub sub-menu or something like that . industrial designer:  I think it's also important to  make it possible to  how do you call it in English , to not use batteries , and use ac  bat  batteries to  to be project manager: So  you can mount  the the the  marketing: Yeah , in a breath it's industrial designer:  the remote control to  project manager: user interface: We should think of the twelve fifty we have industrial designer: to refill the user interface: but marketing: Yeah , user interface: I don't know how much that's going to  marketing: but we don't we don't have any costs now , industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: because i  when you get an L_C_D_ screen , you run it on batteries , user interface: Yeah . user interface: If you have an L_C_D_ screen that's burns all the time I dunno . user interface: You shouldn't on and off because that's ver extra , that you have t first you have to turn the remote on , and then you can  project manager: industrial designer:  marketing: Yeah , I think it's it's not that easy because I don't think people will like it who who  that you have to turn it on first and then use it , user interface: Nee that's that's  yeah . marketing: so I think it's better when th the T_V_ shuts down , the remote shuts down . user interface: But then you can't industrial designer: And go to standby mode when you don't use it , user interface: Yeah . user interface: marketing: And then b that  industrial designer: marketing: before an hour when its get again gets empty . marketing: Yeah , because when you're watching T_V_ , you're zapping and you have to put it in a recharger , user interface: Yeah . Yeah , b when the batteries are low industrial designer: No , marketing: and I don't think it industrial designer: when you when you're done with s  w  watching your television , you have to put it marketing: Yeah , okay , but then we have to be sure that the the the the batteries go hours , six hours , five , six hours , then . user interface: But you'll also forget to put it in , industrial designer: Yeah sure , of course . user interface: because you throw it on the couch industrial designer: Yeah , marketing: Yeah , industrial designer: but marketing: then you have a problem . industrial designer: so I marketing: Or we have to be sure that the batteries last couple of days when they're recharged . user interface: Well I think the batteries should should w should work a lot longer than a couple of days , marketing: So . user interface: or not ? marketing: Yeah because you have b user interface: 'Cause marketing: but you have L_C_D_ screen . industrial designer: High power user cell , i  it should be  a standard move to to put your remote control in the charger when you're done watching television , marketing: Yes . industrial designer: that's also a a a great advantage because you can't lose it anymore . Because you are obliged to  put it in the charger and not to  leave it in a couch  between some cushions . user interface: But then you also have to s have somewhere where you can put a remo recharger near your couch project manager: Yeah , also . user interface: because otherwise you have to walk a long way when you twoft want to turn on the T_V_ . industrial designer: Yeah just just a cable , or a even a a a a a charger where you can mount it on . project manager: Okay , well I've marketing: It has to be easy to use also , or things . industrial designer: Functional designs  for the elderly  you could make it possible to enlarge the screen , marketing: I think . industrial designer: Because we can look at   perhaps  forty buttons at a screen , but the elderly only look at two buttons . project manager: And you said something about speech recognition ? marketing: Yeah , industrial designer: Speech recognition ? marketing: it says also industrial designer: Hello . That's an also ninety one percent sixteen to twenty five , twenty six to thirty five years , seventy six percent , and thirty six to forty five , thirty five percent . marketing: But then I I I project manager: Even bigger than for L_C_D_ . industrial designer: let's leave out all the remote controls and just put a microphone on top of the television to user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: that should it has to be remote control , not marketing: Yeah , industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: But they want to talk into the remo remote control , or something , industrial designer: Sure why not why not marketing: Yeah . user interface: or ? marketing: Is this only would you would you pay more for speech recognition in a remote control . user interface: Oh , but do we want to implement that , or ? marketing: I think an L_C_D_ screen should be suf sufficient . project manager: But when you look at the percentages marketing: Yeah , it says a lot , but project manager: Speech recognition scores even higher , huh ? industrial designer: Perhaps the options should be  Why not ? user interface: project manager: Yeah , well , industrial designer: Why not ? project manager: maybe because of the cost , but  nobody knows  how much  it will cost  . industrial designer: Let's hope  to have some  d user interface: I know marketing: No I think I think it's better to have L_ L_C_D_ screen , because in the area of tw thirty six to forty five , we have about thirty percent of the market share in in our hands , and fifty five of those people want L_C_D_ screen and thirty five want speech recognition . user interface: With that  marketing: If it should be done , if it could be done , I won't matter . user interface: but how would you like to implement that , that you say volume up , and then it goes up , industrial designer: Yeah . Then  it's y it's yours to do a French and Dutch and English marketing: True . marketing: But that should also be with f should be also with L_C_D_ screen . marketing: Because then I think in Chinese is different written , volume is different written than  Swahili or something . marketing: 'Kay , what else ? project manager: So , no speech recognition ? Or user interface: Well , if it could be done , we marketing: Yeah , industrial designer: Y it should be done . industrial designer: That's not so difficult at all , project manager: Okay , just make a separate remote for each  industrial designer: because I already use on several voice operated systems , and they are all possible to  not all , but user interface: Well , you sh you should to adjust the thing . I think it can't be implemented , but maybe user interface: You could use that n as an option , if you have money left , or something . Well I've written down an an on or off button , volume selection , channel selection ,  the digits from one to zero , huh .  a digits button to switch  between one and two digits , mute button , a separate menu for teletext , a battery indicator .  we're going to use a docking station and  probably L_C_D_ and if there's enough money , speech recognition . user interface: I With  teletext if it wasn't ver very important , it was but marketing: No , but user interface: You also now have colours . Yeah , marketing: Curved ? user interface: when you press the red button , you go to page one hundred two , and when you press the industrial designer:  yeah . user interface: because it says that teletext not really important , industrial designer: S Shortcuts . marketing: I think we should we could that we could also implement a audio settings , screen settings and channel settings , but as sub-menus . marketing: D Mainly if you turn the  remote control on , you have to u you have to see from one till zero , channel and volume . project manager: Okay , so not too much teletext support , but in a separate menu , and industrial designer:  . industrial designer: So does it confuse  the user ? user interface: You'll have to search for it . user interface: industrial designer: If you want to use teletext , you can push the teletext button and then the options  become available . project manager: Okay , but no more buttons or functions , or ? user interface: I guess not . What else can you do with a television ? user interface: We've got anon project manager: Aren't we forgetting something very important ? user interface: Have got got two examples here , but I don't think there's anything we're missing . user interface: Well , we don't have the video orders marketing: Yes , so this is your presentation . user interface: Yeah , you could look here all the the marketing: Which ones were yours ? user interface:  th th th th I don't know , technical functions . marketing: Techni user interface: They're a bit small , you can we should stretch them , because project manager: Ping . user interface: And for a T_V_ ? Can you zoom in a T_V_ ? marketing: Yeah , b wide screen , high screen , different things you have , user interface: Or that you can put 'em on  on on wide and marketing: yeah different  user interface: yeah . user interface: Yeah , so you can program the marketing: So those four , and of course the main . user interface: Yeah , so the first you see the main , and the other ones you can  go to  marketing: Yeah . marketing: Something industrial designer: There are a lot of options depending  on what kind of television you got . marketing: Yeah , if  industrial designer: 'Cause if you don't got a wide screen television you don't need the  the screen settings marketing: No , you don't yu a no you then you don't no ni don't industrial designer:  for  marketing: then you don't use it . industrial designer: Colours I think the main colour of the remote control is  the colour of the L_C_D_ screen . industrial designer: I Because we don't want a lot a devi yeah a device self s g marketing: Yeah , then defines itself . Because  how many percent ? Eighty percent ? user interface: They think it's ugly , right ? marketing: Would spend more money if it looks fancy . industrial designer: Okay , so use  very  lot of peo user interface: Perhaps you can  make adjustable fronts , like with the telephones . industrial designer: Adjust with phones , yes user interface: You can  But I don't think that  industrial designer: Okay . industrial designer: Yeah sea view , yes , Simpson's versions and marketing: Yeah , see through version .  then we have  separate menus for teletext , screen settings , audio settings , and what else ? industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: Otherwise you have all those teletext , perhaps teletext not , industrial designer:  . user interface: but marketing: Or like  you have a menu button , you press project manager: No , we said teletext also a separate menu . user interface: Yeah , but I marketing: Yeah , or otherwise you have a menu button , press menu then you have  main  menu search  all the all the settings . project manager: So we're having a a general menu with the most used functions ,  teletext , screen settings , audio settings , channel settings , and maybe there are options for the remote itself ? Like  large icons or small icons user interface: I don't know . project manager: and I don't know what else , marketing: project manager: but industrial designer: No . marketing: I think b because we don't have a lot of buttons on the one screen , user interface: Or do we have any buttons ? On the remote . marketing: I think the buttons Yeah , but but or like you have user interface: Which one ? marketing: you only have channel button or volume button . Those buttons you can you can project manager: Yeah , but on the L_C_D_ , user interface: But that's also in the L_C_D_ , project manager: huh ? user interface: right ? marketing: Yeah . user interface: So we don't have any normal buttons marketing: Yeah , th user interface: that  marketing: No , no normal buttons , yeah . user interface: Yet on and off is p is perhaps you kno project manager: But we don't need a special industrial designer:  not button marketing: But I don't think project manager: we don't need a special options menu for the remote itself . If you have if you have  industrial designer: Yeah sure , of course you need  a settings button ,  or a settings option for the remote control . But isn't idea to use   what you said ,  normal on and off button for the T_V_ , that you don't have to use a marketing: No no no , because we we discussed that you could charge it , otherwise is it it jumps to stand-by mode automatically . user interface: Yeah but but not for the remote but for the T_V_ , that you use marketing: Yeah , but a T_V_ of course , th that's the I think that's a best thing is that to implement that one in the menu with the volume and channel . user interface: But a not as normal button , in the L_C_D_ , marketing: No . project manager: Well maybe there should be a separate button apart from the L_C_D_ , user interface: yeah . project manager: because you can't turn it on when the L_C_D_ is off . So how do you turn the thing on ? There has to be a on button on the remote , user interface: No you just tap I think . project manager: And then the television is on also , or just the remote ? marketing: No , just the remote . user interface: But marketing: A television don't have to be on , that one you can press on , industrial designer: Yeah , it should be in standby mode , but marketing: yeah stand-by , then press on remote , press on and then T_V_ should be available . I don't know whether it's handy to have a n a normal on button , a r just  rubber  for for T_V_ , marketing: Separate . Otherwise you I don't know whether or not that's industrial designer: A A A normal button on the remote control , user interface: Yeah , yeah . industrial designer: or norm ? user interface: Of or you should put it in the L_C_D_ screen . industrial designer: Yeah , because  when you touch the L_C_D_ screen when it is in standby mode , it should pop on . industrial designer: Wh  why would it be a a need to have a normal button ? user interface: Well I I guess if you use the L_C_D_ screen , you first have to search where is the on button , then you  you you then turn it , and then the T_V_ goes on . But if you have a normal on button on the on the remote , then you do the on , and then you search the channel which you want . marketing: Yeah , but I think the re the remote control , if you press tap the screen , it always should jump to the screen which has the volume button , channel button , and of course of also the on and off button . industrial designer: I think it looks a lot more fancy if you use  if you don't have any buttons on the s on on remote control . project manager: Okay , well that's might be a unique selling point , huh for a remote . project manager: Okay , well I guess we have to industrial designer: Oh , okay marketing: Yeah , if we can afford it . project manager: postpone further discussion to  our next meeting , because we're running out of time . Okay , well user interface: project manager: thank you very much , for now , marketing: user interface: Should we put this back in our rooms , or  ? industrial designer: Yeah , think so 