user interface: industrial designer: marketing: project manager: And this  design , detailed design meeting  we will discuss  the look-and-feel of the design , the usability interface design , and we will do the product evaluation . If you hold it and you press another button ,  the help goes to the L_C_D_ screen . marketing: is this the moment where we ask or can ask questions about the functionality ? user interface: So Yeah . marketing: when you're in teletext there usually are buttons where you just you just press it and you g go to the next teletext page . user interface: that's just  the normal  as th as the normal  remote controls  So  You put it  you  came in  page  one hundred . user interface: Oh yeah ? project manager: But  I think these are altogether quite a quite a few buttons . user interface: industrial designer: I think if you look at most controls , they've got more buttons than this . industrial designer: because there's no other way to know when someone wants to know what a button does . If you just make a control for just the T_V_ there's just not much to gain here . So we had somebody about th interfa Something about the design of the buttons there ? industrial designer: Yeah , they're project manager: Just n normal plain buttons . user interface: it industrial designer: But they're supposed to be equal sized , round , with a with a little logo on it for the for the volume , the the triangle and stuff . Then because we only have thirty minutes left , I will move on to the finance part , which is pretty exciting , to see if it's all possible what we wanna do . And I can tell you that we're going to have a pretty hard time producing this for twelve and a half Euros . project manager: If we see I don't know if I've filled in correctly , so just correct me if you see  something wrong . project manager: I don't know , but I think the single curved is good for design , and also for the display to have a prominent place on the remote control . project manager: Because you have to we will have to get the twelve and a half Euros at the end . project manager: I think we can  discard the help and the mute button  by pressing down volume long , or pressing down a a number long . project manager: And this is marketing: d I assume you'd count the volume and channel thingies for two buttons each , right ? project manager: No those are one , I think . Where did  marketing: Well , think actually there're two buttons , user interface: it's just one button . project manager: So maybe we can we can even make one button with the volume and the channel in one , by pressing marketing: Well I was thinking , maybe you could just integrate three of those numbers to one button . user interface: So  , project manager: Yeah w user interface: we've still got four buttons , but just  So project manager: Yeah th I think they count  the materials . user interface: You got  not not a butt button itself , but  on the  project manager: Yeah on the chip there . Maybe it is , but then it seems to me that it's impossible to get the twelve and a half Euros . Also the L_C_ display , I think it's , I think it's too expensive for the display we use . project manager: I think they  try t industrial designer: If we leave out the display we can also save money on the chip . project manager: That's right , but what's the big advantage of our remote then ? marketing: Only the docking station , I guess . industrial designer: Which isn't the the docking station isn't even in this c s schematic . Don't you think we can , if we can count this as v as one button , and integrate th  these buttons in three , then we save a lot of money as well . industrial designer: So user interface: Are we gonna buy a  a remote control  when you can  use it ? marketing:  user interface: So  Yeah . marketing: Well , since the market research indicated that older people spend their money easier , more easy , maybe it's feasible to just put the price of the remote up a little . So project manager: I think it's  difficult as well , marketing: Or b project manager: but marketing: Basically becoming a choice between like either a good remote and a higher production cost , or just any other remote control . project manager: Or we can leave out the ten buttons and take one scroll wheel for the programme numbers . marketing: But how does scroll-wheel work here ? project manager: Then you will Or maybe you can  scroll . So if you scroll to a number and then you wait a half second , then it g turns to that channel . And the regular chip is not possible ? It has to be advanced ? industrial designer: If you want to use an L_C_D_ screen you you need an advanced chip , yes . project manager: Yeah but I think that's That is a big advantage , user interface: So Yeah project manager: if we're user interface: Yeah it's a big advantage . project manager: But user interface: But  , it's project manager: Can we use can't we integrate the teletext and the subtitles in one button ? user interface: yeah . project manager: If you push it three times ? marketing: Well , think it's pretty much the teletext subtitles are user interface: Yeah . marketing: right now you just push the teletext button , go to page eight eight eight , project manager: Yeah . user interface: But if you push the teletext button twice industrial designer: What if you have to scroll to page eighty eight ? Eight hundred eighty eight . marketing: I think that's the case on most user interface: It's  One m  one b  , a few buttons . project manager: Ah that's not really that marketing: Well , that could be just  like the scroll to eight , click , scroll to eight , click , scroll to eight , click . marketing: But then again that would be d j just pretty much not an option for older people , industrial designer: No . marketing: Holding a remote with which they expect to have like ten buttons for the numbers one to zero . project manager: I think if you make a good advertisement  on television and in the in the guide , you can explain to the people how to use the scroll wheel . industrial designer: If we leave out all those buttons , perhaps you can go with the flat flat case . industrial designer: So if you put the the volume and channel buttons on the same height as the on-off button , the screen right behi under that , than the scroll button project manager:  yeah . user interface: But  , you can make a f quite a big  remote remote control for  just the same price as a small one . It's  it's more the moulds in which they are being made , I think .  , what does everybody think about a flat or a single curved design ? Freek , what do you think ? marketing: Well , I still think we should go for the single curve design . Yeah I'm ag marketing: I'd rather just go to the board and get us to spend eighteen dollars a a remote . project manager: So people will use it more , and especially for the help functions , user interface: Yeah . project manager: No , but I think marketing: So we're gonna have to do a lotta convincing them . project manager: I think the most user interface: But they know the scroll-buttons from  old radios . project manager: We can let l user interface: So maybe it's  project manager: We can stick it out , a bit . If they see this design they think oh , there are only five buttons , and  But we will see . marketing: Five more minutes ? project manager: No we've got fifteen minutes but marketing: Okay . What ? marketing: 'Kay so I did some literature study study , and analysis of the requirements we set up earlier . Innovative ? What new functions are there ?  , easy to use ?  , learnability is a very important factor here .  , is it functional ? Are there not too many functions  among the functions ? And are the those functions that are there , are they useful ? And the cost . If our company is If it is easily recognisable that our company made it ? And So we're supposed to evaluate it right now . Oh I have to say this was a little hard , because the minutes of our last meeting were not here . marketing: Is the design fancy , on a scale of one to seven ? project manager: I think it's fancy . Sh marketing: I think so , with our L_C_D_ screen , docking station , scroll-buttons . project manager: So we've got twenty cents for our docking station , huh ? industrial designer: user interface: marketing: Should be do-able . project manager: Is it functional ? industrial designer: marketing: Is the design functional ?  , do we have all functions that we want to include ? project manager: Yes . Oh , and do we  take care of the biggest frustrations of the remote control ? Like it getting lost and R_S_I_ influences ? user interface:  m industrial designer: we haven't thought of that one . marketing: Are the production costs within the preset limits ? industrial designer: marketing: Well they are now . project manager: No I think with our new radio button , I think it's  I think it's better . marketing: I think project manager: I think it marketing: I think a radio button is not exactly what older people expect to have a remote control . I was also supposed to calculate the score , but thought we would have another private thingy after this . marketing: Is this Like after this , are we done ? Or project manager: N We've gonna We're going to evaluate it . project manager: What is it ? marketing: Guess I'll just type that in on the bottom here . industrial designer: Yeah , there w there was enough room , but the finance  marketing: Yeah , true . Was it clear what everybody had to do  according to their roles and functions ? Yeah ? user interface: Yeah . project manager: Teamwork ? Did it work out ? Working together ? Also , you two of you with the  last phase ? user interface: So industrial designer: Yes , was okay . industrial designer: The tasks are very structured , so you can just do step by step and it's very easy . Were the means sufficient for the tasks  we had to do ? Or were they too much ? user interface:  . industrial designer: Well , the smart-board , the d d drawing is just a pain in the ass , but The digital the digital pen is very nice . industrial designer: A flip-over or a more precise  digit user interface: A flipper's  easier , so Yeah . user interface: But if you want to share  of  when you make  a picture like this  on the presentation , it's easier to  share it with  other people . user interface: you can sh save it  and  put it on the internet , or   in shared f  folder or  sh  shared directory . marketing: Yeah , user interface: So So marketing: I tried to open the file on my laptop , user interface: Yeah ? No ? industrial designer: No . project manager: But I think you can user interface: T can  can you export it  like a Yeah . Have we found new ideas for having this kind of meetings ? Or user interface: yeah maybe   when we n  just  give the numbers of of    o one of  out of s  sev project manager: Yeah . user interface:  it's  easier to  to do the th things that are like that on a computer . project manager: But maybe because of the docking station the price of the remote can also be a little bit higher ? marketing: Yeah . project manager: So I think that shouldn't be the biggest problem , because it's very cheap to make as well . project manager: Do we think we gonna get the twelve and a half million ? user interface: Yeah . marketing: Yeah , still I think  if we're n gonna make a scroll-button anyway it'd be more for the younger people than for the older people . project manager: So you can also try to  reach the younger people by  putting fancy covers on on the market . marketing: Yeah , I think then it would be way more  popular with younger people than it is , than would be with older people . I didn't get a message from the from ending of the user interface: I believe y  project manager: Oh I think I have one now . industrial designer: project manager: user interface: marketing: project manager: Export as picture , I think . So  project manager: Yeah , I'll just put it in My Documents marketing: Yeah , it probably will . marketing: Oh yeah , you're supposed to make a final project manager: And then I will be back in about ten minutes to show you the final presentation . marketing: Are we supposed to go into our own rooms again ? user interface:  maybe we have to fill  another questionnaire 