I don't know if  if everybody knows me , so I'm Bart , marketing: My name's Frank . They'll record  our actions and you'll have wires and microphones that will record your voice .  there are also some microphones there but th  you don't have to pay a lot of attention on those , because it will  disappear when you don't attend to it . So is there a project documents folder ? There are some notes in it already I see , some documents . Well I don't know if you've noticed , but  we're working for Real Reaction . We put fashion in electronics ,  we make it work ,  we put a lot of effort in design and in the product itself . marketing: project manager:  maybe I can sit down , then I can take some notes or Let's see . project manager: I dunno it's not a lot of work , but just  if you hear something  you can write down , just write it down . No ? user interface:  ? marketing: Can't say I paid much attention to it , project manager: I can see if it works this way . project manager: Real Remote is not really the company we're we are , but it's just a little fault . project manager:  okay , what are we going to do ?  our project aim is as you can see a new remote control . The Industrial Designer is going to work on the working design ,  components design and a bit of the look and feel design .  the User Interface Designer is going to do the technical function design , user interface concept and user interface design . And the marketing expert is doing a little bit of user requirement specification , trend watching and project  product ev evaluation . We are going to work with a lot of high-tech tools here , so it's ab it's handy if we have a little bit of training first . N  these functions we don't have anything to do with , only undo , you can undo a little  piece of drawing . It's really funny because you can draw with it on this page  in the think it is form of . But all you will found that already because there are a lot of documents in it already , so it will be okay . And these are available on the smart boards as well , so if you have a document you wanna show , just open it from the folder . It's what I just said , it's save , print , move back or forward one page . marketing: project manager:  the only thing we have to  look after is that we use different colours , and different line width . Because if you hold it like this , the sensors will get blocked and then the drawing won't get good . 'Cause if you're going to draw like really fast then  the pen won't hold up . user interface: project manager: These are not very much , but   , see you have to do it real slow . project manager: Ah I was trying to draw a dolphin , user interface: project manager: but I think his nose has to be a little bit marketing: user interface: project manager: But it's close . I think that's it because if you wan ar are going to do it like this then it will be a stripe . project manager: Is your cat , or did you find him on the street ? industrial designer: user interface: marketing: industrial designer: Well , it's supposed to be a cat . So everybody knows how to work with the white board now ? So if you have any ideas or if you wanna draw anything on the white board , just ask marketing: Yeah . marketing: project manager:  as you can see , we  for our remote control , a selling price is  twenty five Euros .  that's the least we have to get from our remote controls , so we have to work together to reach our aims .  we can do it international , so we have to focus on different kind of users , different kind of cultures , and different kind of trends as well . Our production cost  can be maximal twelve and a half Euros , so that's also a point we have to keep in mind , that we won't make remote controls with small televisions inside , and stuff like that . Selling price twenty five , profit aims fifty million  , but more important is the int international market we're trying to focus on . marketing: So just on a side note , why is it my laptop is only giving me a black screen ? user interface:  ? project manager:  maybe you have to say the magic word . But so  does everybody has  experiences with  remote controls , and  not the ordinary mote controls , but also a little bit different ones ? Like you can use for other ? marketing: user interface:  . marketing: Well , we have a kind of broad T_V_ at home , and a D_V_D_ player , so we got like a lot of remote controls , one for the T_V_ , one for the video recorder , one for the D_V_D_ player . marketing: And I think it's it would be best to just make one remote control that can operate them all . And you can  program I think eight different devices in it , and you can use it for your television , anything else . project manager: And it also operates on infra-red , so you have to got the little device inside your room , and then you can operate it from the third or th or second floor . marketing: Oh project manager: So that's pretty handy when you have a video recorder or D_V_D_ player downstairs and you've got a link to your T_V_ on the second floor .  but only the I think that if you can put different kind of devices in one remote control , it makes it a lot easier as well . project manager: And other functions for a remote control ? Maybe we can make it   user interface: user interface: you never no know  , marketing: So user interface: I w   project manager: Waterproof . But they'll also really drag up the production costs , so think we'll have to see about that too . project manager: No ? user interface: project manager: Okay , then I'll put the minutes from this meeting in the project folder , and then we can all work 