project manager:  I have some points I would like to  some some issues I would like to point out .  first of all ,  if you make minutes yourself as well ,  like Sebastian does ,  could you put them on the shared folder ? If you do not make minutes , no problem , but it's easy for me to see what you  wrote down , user interface: Yeah .  the second thing ,  I was th  s thinking to myself , I have this little remote control , and I'm talking to it , but I still need to point to the television , because it works with infrared . industrial designer: So project manager:  the agenda for now   are there any pre-discussion questions ? marketing: user interface: No . industrial designer: project manager: we wi we will have your individual presentations ,  then the decision on the remote control concept ,  and  the closing . So  I think we we can immedis immediately start with the individual presentations ,  the progress you've made . project manager:  I think it might be smart to look at  Ruud's  information first , because I understood there are some  significant changes in the market situation .  Ease of use is important , but  innovation is more important , and a fancy look and feel is  even more important . And  some fashion watchers have found out that the young target group likes fruit and vegetables in their  clothes , shoes and furniture , user interface: marketing: and that they want spongy material . But we since we are concentrating on  the younger group project manager:  w wait a sec wait a se industrial designer: Oh wait  wait up . project manager:  could you go to the previous slide ?  because I'm taking minutes marketing: 'Kay . The feel of to be spongy industrial designer:  so do you think  when fruit and vegetables are important for clothing and shoes that they are in remote controls also ? marketing: Well ,  one example given was this , so  I assume they just want something colourful . user interface: you said in the p industrial designer: marketing: No ,  the younger group likes  more colourful  objects . marketing: But user interface: I had industrial designer: But can you can you go back to that slide ? The  marketing: Which one ? industrial designer: just one slide back , marketing: This ? industrial designer: no no no . industrial designer: Has it something to do with that  natural feeling also , do you think ? project manager: marketing:  well , it might . project manager: Okay , so so , yeah , it might not be t  it it shouldn't be too hard . marketing: Yeah , and like  the older group likes familiar materials , user interface: Or we could make oh . But since we're conten concentrating on  the younger group , I think we should use soft materials and  make it colourful or  like cell phones , exch exchangeable covers . industrial designer: project manager: Do you know the phone ? industrial designer: I don't know the phone , project manager: It's the Siemens  C_ twenty five , industrial designer: but I can imagine it . project manager: I believe it's it's the one the Post-bank  gave away , user interface:  thirty five . project manager: the very user interface: And the b the light blue and it's also in yellow . project manager: You kn you know , Ruud , as well ? About th marketing: I've seen it , project manager: Okay . Okay , so the the m  important findings are  innovation is more important than ease of use for the our target group . Well , I don't ha really have much to add ,  because most of things we already said in  the previous  discussion .  project manager: Okay , well it's good to to sum up  the things we already thought about . user interface:  the previous ideas were voice recognition and  the round button for  the p channel programming and  volume . These are both with  with voice recognition , but they're very advanced and very high-tech and just  , well , a weird  shape . user interface: So I suggest I couldn't  I had a small  mock-up  sign on the on paper . But it's it's kind of  it's kind of o organic , so that's very good . project manager: And what I'm thinking about , maybe  we should make very light but   a grip   this is how you hold a remote control . project manager:  it shouldn't be too  glatt , too slippery , industrial designer: Slippery . project manager: s because  user interface: But if you have something like  the Siemens phone , it's rubber . There are there are also remote controls who have  a little shape underneath where you can put your fingers in , project manager: Yeah , ex for your fingers , yeah . industrial designer: user interface: Oh and  to add on  Ruud's information , in this  interface we can have  high-tech with the voice recognition and  , well , the the fancy colours and  and so on , and still have the ease of use , because we have an easy interface . user interface: So if you have the voice recognition , you can you can programme like thirty   thirty c  controls on it . marketing: industrial designer: project manager: Okay , b but I think we'll industrial designer: Okay , but I'll I'll go into that , project manager: yeah .  I had a talk with  our manufacturing  division , and  we had a talk about all the different components  who are in this design .  that's the most common  remote con control form  we're used to is just a it ju it's just a box . I c I think you can compare it a little bit with the  big grey image  you had in your presentation . industrial designer: But it's quite  advanced and it's it's quite daring to to use I think . We can use plastic , which is  very slippery and maybe not so nice , but you can give it any colour ,  which is the same for rubber , but it's not slippery . And these latex cases , there's there's just the plastic ones  won't allow the use of solar cells as an energy source source . project manager: user interface: marketing: industrial designer: You really have to imagine like winding up your  user interface: Great . project manager: Well , it would be very new to the market , industrial designer: I d marketing: project manager: but industrial designer: It would be very new , marketing: industrial designer: but it's a kind of a retro  style , I think . So  when you're watching T_V_  or when you're you you have to  make some kind of energy kinetic energy by shaking the remote or throwing it against the wall , whatever you wish . project manager: marketing: industrial designer: It have it it has to move , that's the the sense of it . project manager: I think  , if if I can hook on to that ,  the kinetic thing is very funny . project manager:  solar is of course it's nice , but it's , well , your  your calculator has a solar panel . project manager:  hand dynamo user interface: But if you're watching a movie , how many times  you take the the remote control and and project manager: Well , maybe m user interface: if  if you have a watch , you have the kinetic  idea in a watch also . industrial designer: But you know you know from your own watch your watch uses  a minimal con it consumes a minimal amount of energy . the the shaking of your body , which is almost  every activity makes your  body shake ,  it charges it . So I think  you have a problem when you're watching a movie and  you haven't moved the remote  i remote control in a in an amount of time , and you want t to switch  the channel or something , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: So , but maybe maybe there's a possibility com to combine it with m  traditional batteries , so we can save on the batteries project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: and  when there's enough kinet kinetic energy , use the kinetic energy , and otherwise use the batteries . project manager: Okay , because I guess the voice recognition feature u consumes quite a f  a lot of power . industrial designer: And we of course have the traditional  solar power , which is just      a piece of material on the remote control which transfers light energy into electricity . The user interface controls ,  of course we have the push-buttons and  we also have scroll-wheels .   in the indicators we have the L_C_D_ displays , which means  you can watch  in a display w which channel you have chosen or something like that of the li amount of volume which is  currently user interface: So we don't really have the the kind of button we had in mind in our   in our last meeting , the the thing with the the round with the four user interface: user interface: But I th I don't think  the scroll-wheels I had some I had some information about it too . user interface: I don't think there's any possibility for us to use scroll-wheels . project manager: Well user interface: I d I can't see  any  scenario where you would use a scroll-wheel with a button on it . What about integrating a scroll-bar on this side ? user interface: Yeah ,  that's a possibility , industrial designer:  it's do it's done before . user interface: But Flores , think about a scenario where y where you would use the scroll-button for project manager: Volume ? industrial designer: Well , it's it well , i what he means is there's an button integrated in the scroll-wheel . project manager:  Ruud , wha what do you thing about  a scroll-bar ?  scroll-wheel . But it's done before ,  there are many other devices  like  telephones and our  radio , pocket radios . industrial designer: And Well , it's it's been done years ago and I don't see it anywhere now . project manager: Nokia has a well , okay , it's not really a scroll-wheel , but on their side th the the volume button is on the side , because you gri grab it like this . user interface: Yeah , I believe  if you have  what we've earlier said ,  the grip  places in in the remote control . You have your hand on one place on the remote control , so you have to place all the buttons in a range of your thumb . user interface: So in that case  the volume button on the side  of the remote control would be perfect .  industrial designer: Okay ,  we have to know , if you want to use  these rubber double-curved c  case ,  you must use these push  push-buttons . We basically have  three types of chips we can use and  these chips incorporate all the Logica and    hardware that is needed to send  to send a signal . So so user interface:  you programme it , you m mute and you g you give  an  an action to it that that's really the mute function industrial designer: okay . user interface: So you say mute , he repeats mute and you makes a computer sound mute , and then goes to the mute function . If we want to use the L_C_D_ display , we really need the advanced version , which is a bit l little bit more costly . And if we don't want to use  any of these  more advanced functions we can keep with the simple  chip , which is a bit cheaper . project manager: d did we already decide on the display ? To industrial designer:  no , but I think that's something for  Roo here to think about . Well , I don't have  I haven't looked for  for information about it , but I don't think information  y I don't think you need it on a display . user interface: Especially when when we have to look at a cost , I don't think  industrial designer: I I don't think either . user interface: 'cause   all any T_V_ can  can  view a digit on  on screen , industrial designer: No . Okay , well project manager: th industrial designer: my conclusion ,  unfortunately the market has decided the a little  other than I thought . I thought  the market would like  a sort m sort of titanium casing , but they seem to like natural  stuff . It's it's more advanced , but I'm I think you should combine it with batteries . project manager: Okay , it's maybe a bit too too flashy , industrial designer: Otherwise it will not too advanced , project manager: too industrial designer:  well . industrial designer: It's in in in some way it can give us an advance , because you will save on your batteries . user interface: But what about  the markets  wants colourfuls  designs ? So if you use titanium project manager: No no , but the   that's what Sebastian said . project manager: No , user interface: And I would think marketing: And project manager: r marketing: yeah , project manager: rubber with colours . industrial designer: Okay ,  well  these scroll-wheels , I think  they they can be they can be handy . user interface: And they can be implemented with a regular chip ? industrial designer: So Yes , they can . But they really need the regular chip , you cannot use the sa simple user interface: Okay , but we also  we already need the regular chip for the sample  sensor speaker industrial designer: Well , I'm not very sure . Maybe that's an  a different user interface: oh , project manager: But but do we want the curved   design , user interface: evalu project manager: or industrial designer: I think so , if you if you stick with the the simple  straight-forward  not curve design , i  it's too dull . industrial designer: And  if you  take the double-curved ,  then you cannot  you can only use the rubber buttons and you cannot use the scroll-wheels . project manager: Okay , what about  the issue I  addressed at the beginning of the meeting ?  the voice function w with the infrared  issue . It's it's  I  I can imagine it's very dull to talk to a device w if you have to point to another device . But project manager: It depends also on your on your user interface: Well , if you if you take your hand before it , okay , it won't work , but you can point it just to the other wall . project manager: But if you have carpets on the wall , which our natural loving friends probably do have , then  yeah , th th it might be a bit more of a issue . industrial designer: I think  it gives us the advantage of user interface: And and the scroll  scroll-wheels . project manager: according to Ruud , the the the market likes  new flashy technology , industrial designer: Technology . project manager: well , ok I know , but it's m it's less  s standard marketing: Standard ? project manager: than than Well , we are not very w we do not know  much about the the f the financial part . project manager: Because if we do have enough  space in in our finance , I would say do integrate it , industrial designer: user interface: But we already have the scroll-wheels , the sp  the speaker  the speak recognition , the rubber , the fancy colours . I think i Ruud , do you have any  anything you would like to  add or or maybe thoughts or marketing: Nah ,  n no , I don't think so . M project manager: No ? Sebast  nee , Roo ? Roo , do you have any other user interface:  no .  the n the next phase will be  the  not the project manager: Sebas industrial designer: what is the next phase f Flores ? project manager: Well , we we need to describe  decisions now . project manager: So  industrial designer: So i project manager: on the energy , well , we decided . project manager: User interface  user interface:  but  can't scroll-wheels  work with one  one-curved case ? Yeah , okay . marketing: user interface: project manager:  and  the I_D_ and the U_I_D_ need to work together on the prototype drawing on the SMARTboard . user interface: The project drawing is for the next industrial designer: So you will be on the Bahamas .  marketing: project manager: Yeah , it's it's  when we come back in thirty minutes ,  you will have a  prototype ready . So can you  give us a summary of all  decisions we've made ? project manager: Yeah ? I can . user interface: But can there be  wor can they work together ? Or do we have to choose between them ? project manager: No , user interface: 'Cause if we have to choose project manager: they can be complementary . industrial designer: Well ,  project manager: Every device user interface: What if not ? industrial designer: It it should be . Okay ,  industrial designer: So project manager: th industrial designer: So   just  the energy source is  the batteries and the solar . What about  the finishing of the case ? We have decided we wanted to use the rubber ? project manager: Yeah , with colourful rubber . project manager:  if it's possible with  different  covers , but I'm not sure if our suppliers can  can help us with  with such   a wish . Don't you think ? project manager: Well , I was more thinking about the fruit colours that the Ruud showed us before .  so maybe it shouldn't even be two colours , it should be a full colour cover with such an image industrial designer:  . project manager: or or  thinking in two colours is is too black and white for our m  c  market group , I guess . marketing: industrial designer: Okay , marketing: industrial designer: but  I'm afraid it's not possible to print a picture on  the device . Just a week ago , a keyboard manufacturer would print , industrial designer: Oh , I've read . industrial designer: And th the they should be spongy also , because they're they're rubber too . marketing: user interface: What what did you say ? industrial designer: Well  you can use well , when you use the buttons , they'll they'll be made of rubber too . Because it  i  what do you touch the button , and what do they want spongy   devices , or or i user interface: Yeah , b But then you just have the the fact that  the drawings on the buttons will disappear eventually . user interface: What I said in the in the first  discussion ,  the digit six on the button , it will disappear when it's from rubber . project manager:  is that  does our our supplier say so ? user interface: It is not  something  it's no information I read about it or so , but it's just from marketing:  didn't did we inc  include the digi digits or  leave them to the speech recognition ? user interface: No , but but  it marketing: 'Cause things like  volume could be  placed next to the button . So still then , if you feel  li  if you feel your remote control , you just rub on the cover , so you rub on the painting . project manager: No no , there's no painting , only  yellow or But it's into the rubber . project manager: Yeah , but this is on the pla user interface: You have to draw the industrial designer: Yes , the signs . project manager: What about  making this rubber and making this plastic ? industrial designer:  I see what you mean . project manager: But the front , on which the the buttons are doesn't have to be rubber . project manager:  industrial designer: Well , I'm I'm not so sure , user interface: Y  can you separate these  these industrial designer: I think it c should be Well , I'm not sure , I have to ask with manufacturing , but I'm I'm not sure that's what you want , because our customers specifically ask for the spongy feel , and that's what you get with rubber . So if you want the spongy feel , you need  to make these buttons all all of rubber . project manager: I know , but do you touch this or do you touch this ? industrial designer: I think both . The side , but do you touch between the the these buttons ? user interface: I think Yes , especially when there are l a few buttons on it , you have  a lot of space to touch . project manager:  because you have to make its prototype , and  yeah y you have the most knowledge about the suppliers , the possibilities and  user interface: Yeah . The chip is is not really industrial designer: The only difference between the advanced and the regular version is that the advanced  version of the chip supports L_C_D_ . project manager: Yeah ? Yeah ,  if you write wrote anything down ,  could you put it on the shared folder ? industrial designer: Okay 