project manager: l so let's  wait it   marketing: project manager: we have we have must  , user interface: Some creative  project manager: we must have  some time for that  because it will be  yeah , quite a lot of mathematics . project manager: And after that ,   an evaluation of  the process how we  how we have done it here with the SMARTboard , with the with our laptops , with the all  all this . So , we've worked out this concepts , how to how to hold it , where to put the buttons and and stuff . And  , well , we began with  with a form of shape , that is  is easy to hold w in one hand , left or right handed . industrial designer: user interface: So , we made i it a little bit less thick and  it has some ar artistic meaning . project manager: user interface:  well , during the meeting I showed you the concept of  placing the buttons on top , usable with your thumb , and  the menu structure ,  if necessary , with your other hand , so it's just gonna hold it easily . project manager: user interface: And it has to be acce accessible with your  other hand too , of course . industrial designer: Yeah ,  well , and as you saw , we would just have the basic remote with the panel L_C_D_  screen . Well , these would be the main buttons , h you could  change them later on in your own profile if you want to . marketing: project manager: industrial designer: This is for  the added  effect of  well  y youth and dynamic . project manager: industrial designer: Well , what we figured is  we'll show you a picture later on you have more b a better idea after that . industrial designer: And  , in these bumps you could actually  put some electronics  that would you can make a more thinner  design , marketing: Yeah . Oh , we added that this  can be held with your hands for this maximum is om yeah , one and a half centimetres . S and you can just be the the layer of the touchscreen and some have some wires underneath it to make it as  thin as possible in the middle for good grip . industrial designer: Yeah , f  , as colours , do you do you have the picture in  user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: And and for colours , we we figured starting with basic colours like  white or metallic grey . It would be best to to appeal to a broad public and make the covers exchangeable , industrial designer: so it d user interface: so the young people will buy an orange and a red and blue and a purple , industrial designer: Or blue or whatever . user interface: but when the o older people  go in the shop and they see  an orange  remote control , it would be less appealing than a white one . user interface: they think , ah I'll buy for a couple of Euros some noi nice hip  marketing:  . Maybe it's an idea to sell it without a cover , so that you can pick a cover in the in the shop . user interface: Well ,  I think a cover is necessary , 'cause als otherwise you'll just have the L_C_D_ screen . user interface: So , there must be some cheap standard cover ,  maybe white or something , marketing:  . user interface: that's could comes with it and you can buy , so we can make extra money . project manager: Yeah , but  you d you mustn't forget that  our target aim is younger people . project manager: we had decided to  put  some flashy fruity colours in it ,  and  in the survey from  Milan and Paris  it  it came out that   the d the older people are  more willing to  to spend money on extra features . So I think  it will be a better idea to have some  flashy fruity colours as as a standard , user interface: Okay . project manager: and for the people who  really want  a more sophisticated , more traditional look , they're willing to pay  that . project manager: So , maybe it's an idea to put that as an extra and not as a standard . user interface: Well yeah , a colour of a wood style , a white c and  a couple of h hip  fruity colours . user interface: And lea  l delivered standard with a fruity colour , but not too not too much . industrial designer: This isn't this isn't too much , is it ? user interface: Yeah , okay . project manager: Well , the buttons don't have to be  all  all of industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: I marketing: Yeah , except for the buttons it's it could be a standard model . project manager: Okay , marketing: Okay ? project manager: so we gon we gonna evaluate the marketing:  We're going to vote . industrial designer: Why ? marketing: Most true ? industrial designer: Yeah , it's not just  designed for people under the age of forty . marketing: so industrial designer: So marketing: so a o one is appropriate ? user interface: No no , a little more in the middle . industrial designer: Yeah , two or three , because it's not just  the qu question is aimed at is it designed for people with age below forty . user interface: it will be primary appealing to to m minus forty , but also appealing to marketing: Three . industrial designer: marketing: Yeah , acco according to us , it's one ? Or project manager: Yeah . user interface: Yeah , industrial designer: Yeah , I I think user interface: it's the marketing  angle on television . marketing: Yeah , user interface: We have a wonderful marketing: p s Of c of course you have to be  very positive and  enthusiastic about your own product . marketing: False ? user interface: And volume is impo marketing: And volume ? project manager: Volume is true . marketing: Big and clear ? project manager: industrial designer: Yeah , the they are big and clear . user interface: Otherwise , the people who read this  are gonna think we have no teletext button . marketing: It's it's not industrial designer: So , it's w yeah , it it it marketing: yeah , it industrial designer: it isn't entirely unclear , marketing: J industrial designer: but So , I wouldn't give it a seven . industrial designer: What do you think ,  Mister Project Manager ? marketing: Yeah , it's it's yeah . user interface: and marketing: industrial designer: Yeah , it has these all these fruity colours and it has a strange shape . industrial designer: So , if you so if you have trouble finding it user interface: But ,  it it's not making any sound  , marketing: user interface: have we deciding ? marketing: Oh , okay , user interface: So marketing: but If you put  your normal  remote control under your bed , or you throw this remote control under your bed , is it better findable ? user interface: It'll make a difference . marketing: Four ? user interface:  marketing: Fi project manager: So , if it's in the dark place , you still see it glowing . It's it's it doesn't really make a lot of industrial designer: Well , then  then I'll go for four . project manager: Ah , you must see it as  , w  according to  the the other  remote controls , there may   be there in your  T_V_ room , this one will stand out , I think . marketing: Yeah , project manager: Exa I think that that's what it's about . marketing: it it's user interface: If your  fifteen remotes in a drawer ,  you find it , yeah ? project manager: If it if this lying on your couch , you're you're you think what's that for kinda orange  thing . industrial designer: marketing: Like , no not  not seeing it , but lost it in the house or something . industrial designer: Well , if i if you see a strange shape lying somewhere ,  then you'd  recognise it as , whoa , that is strange . user interface: Yeah , mostly when you lose your remote control , it it's under your marketing: Yeah , okay . user interface:  I would call  choose two , industrial designer: user interface: 'cause we decided not to make two f  fresh colours , as it would not . marketing: Easy to use ? project manager: Yeah , can it be zero ? industrial designer: Well , I don yeah , it is kind of marketing: Top easy to use ? industrial designer: It marketing: It's it's not the most easy to use user interface: No , you can do two , because  industrial designer: No . marketing: Yeah , but the most  easy to use is just with one button user interface: But It is r it is rather easy to use , because you have the primary buttons always visible . project manager: marketing: on t Yeah , okay , but easy n not not the most easy to use , I think . project manager: What's the time ? We also have  to do the evaluation ,  the production costs and  stuff . project manager: You haven't seen a more innovative  thing in  Paris ? marketing: The remote control has m remova removable from Multilux . But  , maybe make it two , because the games are in a sub-menu and not  it's not an entire game . Yeah , if the costs are under twelve and a half Euro ,  then we  can  ra  move on to the project evaluation , as we have  experienced it . We have to  fil  , want to  do it in and  see  if we stay under the twelve and a half Euro . project manager: Sample sensor sample speaker ? user interface: No , the advanced chip is  industrial designer: No . project manager: But is it s it's not made from a single uncurved thingy and then  and then  user interface: You no . user interface: Yeah , marketing: Yes , user interface: 'cause  the layer around it fits around the bubbles on the o on the  the back of the marketing: three . Then we'll see  we'll we'll see  wha how much we are over budget . user interface: Yeah , if if you're honest , we'll  type one , special colour . But yeah , it's it's it user interface: j maybe we'll finish  the the list first and then look back , aye ? marketing: That doesn't account for this . So ,  what's the thing we can change ? user interface: So industrial designer: But user interface: No . industrial designer: Well , other case , we can make it single-curved or uncurved . project manager: The kinetic thing , can we just skip it , user interface: Just cut off the kine yeah . marketing: What do you think about  putting a battery in it , but also selling like  the covers , a docking station project manager: Yeah . user interface: But you can use rechargeable batteries anyway , just you s you have to recharge them manual . industrial designer: Okay , project manager: So  industrial designer: well you you can go from double-curved to single-curved . project manager: b but i but the single-curved is just oh user interface: Yeah , so we have to bake the ba back flat , and then industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: No , it's it's just one curve and not a back  curved I think . Or industrial designer: It's just yeah well , the single-curve that project manager: Oh , okay , okay . industrial designer: project manager: And then w yeah , and then we could have it , but  it's its' well it's it's r it is the main point of the the the the look . marketing: Yeah , user interface: Yeah , but what else  do we have to cut out ? No advanced chip ,  that's a little bit of problem . project manager: So  , user interface: Although , can we make it with a regular chip ? project manager: okay , a little less  conversation . marketing: Hey , those ar arcs , why are there for ? project manager: Sorry ? marketing: The blue blue  project manager: Fill in Just a user interface: Explanation . user interface: Yeah , but does it fit with our design ? project manager:  well , the only  thing that don't user interface: Do we have to u adapt it ? It's single-curves . user interface: W Could we just make the bubbles  cut off the back , and then we're  has industrial designer: Yeah , we just make it flat . industrial designer: But , you do l marketing: But , wha 'Kay , look , what is the  If you make it double-curved , it costs one Euro more . marketing: fun function more like industrial designer: Worth , does it have added worth ? user interface: there's an a a athe aesthetic value , but not functionality . industrial designer: R if you  promote a kinetic  I kinetic remote control , that would b sell better than an a normal remote control . industrial designer: No , well , y   , y you can go into your neighbour and tell him , ha , my k  remote control is kinetic . marketing: What a what about all the m the environment freaks ? user interface: Yeah , but it doesn't fit in our co cost profile . project manager: Yeah ? Who because if you want to go to kinetic , you're  you're on thirteen and a half and you must go to flat , marketing: project manager: and I think now it's it's more of  a compromise user interface: Yeah . project manager: And if you make the single curve ha just a big curve , then it's  then it's  marketing: user interface: Yeah , just one big curve . industrial designer: That's one of the functionability  project manager: Okay , well , considering we have marketing: Ah no , we have to do all those hours again . industrial designer: user interface: project manager: Well , we were above , so we did a little redesign marketing: Yeah . Were there  room for  was there room for creativity in our meetings or in your individual meetings ? user interface:  marketing:  . marketing: It was just fixed information and get your stuff from there , and I couldn't go on on i on the internet and search my own stuff . industrial designer: Well , I th I think you two ,  especially you and  and  Daniel , you d you you both had  the less creative  roles in the project . industrial designer: 'Cause I think m user interface: We could just sign up an  remote if we liked . industrial designer: I think Jeroen and I , we had a more design we could have more we had more room for creativity than than you two . Cra industrial designer: Nah , the leadership wasn't crappy , it was the leader that was crappy . user interface: Yeah , example of crappy leadershi marketing: No , leadership was  user interface: Okay , yeah . marketing: you could have but  , it was your first , no  no disrespect or something , project manager: industrial designer: marketing: but you could have  structure it a l little bit more . marketing: So like , I I was talking most of the time the first meeting meeting , and user interface: You could of said , shut up you fool . marketing: But project manager: I was a I was also very  unhappy ,  very unsatisfied  about the marketing: About me . industrial designer: project manager: So ,  I hope   the the the other meetings  industrial designer: Try to learn from your mistake . project manager: get better and  I think the the last two meetings  also we we reached  some good decisions about  talk marketing: No , it you did better . project manager: teamwork ? Well , maybe that's  only Yeah well , it's for us , because  user interface: Well , we work together on a project , but everybody has his own task . user interface: So , it is a little bit marketing: project manager: But , really teamwork were you two  user interface: Yeah . project manager: Yeah ? industrial designer: It's it's just  user interface: Stupid stupid pen , but  project manager: No hard feelings . industrial designer: user interface: in in writing letters , of course , yeah ? Yeah , normally ,  this  the w Block letter sign it , yeah ? project manager: O Just  user interface: Just just write your name in in one line . project manager: You can be you can go quicker , 'cause then it it won't notice it . project manager: I follow the Master class for the SMARTboard , so I think that's the that's the main issue . marketing: But , a and the first two meetings I brought it with me , but I didn't use it at all after the first the first meeting . industrial designer: No , it doesn't have that much added value to the project manager: Huh . As  as I said a m a c few moments ago , it I would like , myself , to write with a normal pen , because must  Yeah , it's almost the same concept , but you can just sim more simply put it on our scanner . user interface: I it's the same concept as the pen , where you f have to download the software or s  very  slow . project manager: And  the SMARTboard is  useful , but the the pen is I  not user-friendly , I think . project manager: Be it it takes a lot of time to draw things and to write things , marketing: user interface: Yeah , and it's it's not very precise . project manager: and that's the user interface: We're trying to m to marketing: Yeah , like when you do this . user interface: Yeah , it may  Yeah , and tr try to wri write your name  in a in a normal  size , yeah . project manager: Yeah , but that's not th the the you when you at a foreign audience , you b don't gonna wr  write  small . user interface: No , a as you saw on on this drawing , just open open this one or that one . It's  th it it Yeah ,  we had more problems even here when we trying to draw these buttons , it's almost impossible to get clear  when you're  project manager: Yeah . New ideas ? user interface: M Abo What kind of new ideas ? project manager:  Well , the the idea of the touch-screen is  marketing: Do you ? user interface: Yeah ,  project manager: marketing: Go on . project manager: I'm just  user interface: New ideas about  the working of this software , about about the project , about the remote controls or marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: marketing: project manager: But the new ideas found for  wi with working with this  software ? user interface: Not really , just they have to improve it . project manager: Not really , yeah ? user interface: the concept is okay , project manager: Yeah , I think user interface: but it has to be quicker .  , it is still opening my programme , n almo almost  my entire computer is locked up during the process project manager: Yeah . People will still feel the need to to write it quickly on  a page and not download it and save it , and project manager: Yeah . user interface: 'Cause when you use a pen , you can just draw like you d draw normally , project manager: Yeah . Or at least when you you don't have to adapt to the technology , just you can write in the way you normally write . user interface: Nah , okay , I I it's my opinion that I marketing: But I think this is better than regular flip-overs , but user interface: Yeah , it's can be saved easier . user interface: But if you're in normal flip-over you a lot of people write text . user interface: And writing text  , yeah , you've gotta really do your best to write some project manager: Yeah , and and maybe some  functions for    circle or  a square . industrial designer: Mean marketing: Yeah , but insert image isn't available ? user interface: 'Cause then you could marketing: Here . project manager: But not the the the the predefined  squares I think  user interface: So you can marketing: Hyperlink ? Hey , what if you do like hyperlink ? user interface: With  W_W_ dot Google dot com . user interface: There's one way to  project manager: Is it marketing: 'Kay , double-click it . project manager: So you have user interface: Well , it's project manager: as you saw , you have a little  Oh , you can Yeah , thank you . So there the the the functionality is there , but it's not it's not ideal , user interface: But project manager: and it's it's very user interface: . project manager: if you  if you have  thirty , forty minutes  for this kind of things , user interface: Yeah . project manager: and we are now with four people , user interface: And that's m project manager: but it well , imagine you are here you're with the ten people and everyone  user interface: That's mostly the case , from the over here with the managements you get two minutes to make your case , project manager: Yeah . user interface: and if you have to do all this kind project manager: Two minutes of drawing , yeah . user interface: And th the one or two things you have to draw when you're there , just use a flip-board . marketing: What I really miss also is  industrial designer: project manager: marketing: is a d is a turtle industrial designer: marketing: is a decision  decision system like  With the evaluation , you have to Polls like , what do you want , a one , a two , project manager: Yeah yeah . marketing: maybe a a l a little application like   give your own number and click one two three four five six seven . project manager: Yeah , just like he said with the with the a screen which you can write , also  a kind of voting  mechanism . industrial designer: But  , problem is , well you can't discuss anything well you you ca  you can , but you will discuss a lot less than l like we did now . industrial designer: But , well  I we said  , no I w th think two , because this and this , and then you can react  on it . industrial designer: But if you you put a three on it ,  just figure well , everybody knows what I'm knowing , so they'll all just put a two on . industrial designer: But then  , I think the idea of one person entering it and the rest  discussing it , that  isn't that bad idea , actually . marketing: That's it ? project manager:  well , just about , user interface: When are w industrial designer: project manager: because  marketing: user interface: When are we going to produce it ? project manager: Yeah , tomorrow ?  , the costs are within the budget . project manager: But , before we going to celebrate ,  I have  a little question which you can't answer , marketing: Yeah . You might thinking what the hell was he doing  marketing: What is an end report ? project manager:  about all the meetings , what we have decided , a r r a report of this day . project manager: that must be made , but I don't know , here is  standing  whoa , we can celebrate now , but the end report is marketing: Oh , you ha you have ten minutes left , I  read . Because I think it will  it must be  marketing:  You you already made a beta version , or project manager: Yeah , it's a three  with seventy five  marketing: Pages . industrial designer: project manager: No no no , marketing: Hey ? project manager: I'm just  marketing: Oh , okay . industrial designer: So you you finished it actually , and so we just have to read it and say yes or no ? project manager: Well , this not nit it user interface: Yes . marketing: Maybe  the user interface:  project manager: Yeah , I understand you , I can talk a little bit Dutch . industrial designer: marketing: No , you have to put  , switch channels  at the top , because that's the most used function and teletext at the second project manager: Oka okay , okay , I I really didn't knew that .  , well all the things we have  discussed ,  the energy , which  turn out to be  batteries , so that's user interface: Yeah . Well , okay , maybe you can add it later that we decided in the end because of the cost .  , he here it is still double-curve , the rubber , the flashy , the fruity , the removable . project manager: And the the added functions like Tetris snake , it's under the parental control , the touch-screen . industrial designer: project manager: So , it's  just a summary of what  we had discussed  industrial designer: On thing  One small thing  , the added functions .  , was it included in the cost ? I don't think so , eh ? user interface: Ah , it's very cheap . marketing: project manager: you you maybe you you you you come at  marketing: No , it's it's not very cheap , but that project manager: It's very necessary . Okay , but so we can discuss that  user interface: He'll do it in his free time . So  project manager: we can discuss that kind of things I think with the with the the board of  industrial designer: marketing: Yeah . user interface: You can ask your personal industrial designer: project manager: Okay , so  anybody  misses something here about  user interface: Yeah , the end conclusion . project manager: Yeah , okay , user interface: But  project manager: that's that's what I'm gonna write b between now . project manager: But , i in here nothing  user interface: the decision to make  the buttons on the top , and the menu on the project manager: user interface: Don't save it , aye ? project manager: Oh , that's cool , Tim . user interface: project manager: Well , I'm I'm user interface: why are only the first five SMARTboard files project manager: I'm going to finish my end report 