 , first I'll  I'll  discuss the buttons we just chose ,  show you some samples ,   discuss some colours and design maybe , already . The channels buttons , one to nine , and  off   zero to nine , and the  button to choose  higher channels than nine .  the volume and channel quadrants ,  left and right , up and down arrows , to  do the volume and channel . industrial designer: user interface: well  what's pretty standard is  that it's that they're all pretty   high  marketing: Large . project manager: user interface: So it's it's not really very  clear what's the function of that . So , that's project manager: Can you go back one page ? For the  menu , what do we use for that ? We don't have buttons for the menu . But  user interface: So ,  how project manager: You have to put it on the user interface: Like this . user interface: well I don't I don't know if we have to discuss this already , or in the next  meeting . industrial designer: user interface: But  , as we have to  to to design the the case and the whole  remote control in our  our our corporate  company   colours and the logo , I would  recommend a yellow case . user interface: yeah so good  good icons on the buttons , and  and big buttons is my  personal  opinion . marketing: project manager: industrial designer: at first we will  I will f  say something about what younger people want , marketing: Okay . And then , I'll discuss what my opinion is about the costs , about  what battery is in it , what kind of buttons also . Maybe it's nice to  get a remote control not like all the other ones , straight and  flat and long . But to give him the shape of your hand , so you it's easier to use or something like that . And then , I'll have to discuss about the costs  of all the things for the remote control . When you want to go m move up , you just scroll up and click on the button , if you wanna see the next ,  if you wanna see that channel . And that's also easy just w when you have a thing like this , and you get it here .  , but then we have just a basic   remote control , and I think there are a lot of those  things , and people won't buy it any more . And I think our budget is too low to use and an L_C_D_ , and the chip who is more expensive . And maybe it's also then  thoughtful if we u  use  as  different kind of  shapes for the for remote control , that we then use the primary colours . But , thi i  This is with an L_C_D_ ? No , industrial designer: Not with an L_C_D_ . industrial designer: but l when you see a menu  on the television , it's like you see  one to twenty , you go   s scroll up , and push number tw twenty . marketing: can you give an indication in b  in the cost difference between  the chip with L_C_D_ or without ? industrial designer: I got it on my screen and it was  higher . marketing: I think if we have an L_C_D_ , it will also sell a lot better . marketing: And that might  bring back the costs  industrial designer: But then we'll I think we must discuss who  what will be better . Or , a more hand-shaped remote control , with scroll , without L_C_D_ . So , well how we did do that ?  , well we made an investigation of the market , by Trendwatchers . And well ,  what did you find ?  , we have two groups , young and trendy , and the old and rich . Well th and the young and trendy , they  they starting to like  fruit and vegetables  as a theme for n  clothes , shoes , and also  products . So , we m must not just only look at what the trend is now , as it might be totally different next year . How w how we how we make it ?  project manager: Yes , a concept on  industrial designer: marketing: project manager: Just industrial designer: Shouldn't we first discuss about like what w we all marketing: Yeah .  , what do we want ? industrial designer: Yeah , but if I paint with project manager: I'll paint . marketing: We have this , and we had the idea of an  a more    like sh in the shape of your hand . user interface: industrial designer: M like Yeah I can't dr I can't draw it . user interface: marketing: A g project manager: So , it has to be soft ? marketing:  . And  , the buttons ? industrial designer: So , you can squeeze in it and Sorry ? project manager: Buttons . industrial designer: user interface: But but i that's the only scroll  button on it then ? industrial designer: But now we use one scroll button and the other one is here . marketing: And i if we go to  industrial designer: If  'Kay c If we do If we use one , then we'll have just a switch on it , and you'll just switch it , and now it's the sound to switch back user interface:  . project manager: It's better in marketing: If we have a menu ,  how do we  choose other options ? industrial designer: with the menu  button . Just not like all the other ones , with  this thing , and  here an arrow , here an arrow , here an arrow , here an arrow . project manager: But if we don't have a L_C_D_ we don't have a menu . project manager: Yeah , but again maybe th How do we know the T_V_ can handle it ? industrial designer: user interface: project manager: You don't know . It's like some sort of  teletext option , but we don't have teletext . industrial designer: And if we put an L_C_D_ thing on it , then the costs will  be much higher . industrial designer: And this has to be harder , because when it falls , it mu mu must not burst . user interface: industrial designer: Paint it ? marketing: user interface: industrial designer: With the scroll thing on , like this ? project manager: One with two scroll buttons and one with without . industrial designer: So ? project manager: And the one with with a menu has an L_C_D_ . user interface: But if you put push the the menu button project manager: that's the menu . user interface: Yeah , wh what Yes , but you don't know which of the scroll buttons you have to choose . marketing: industrial designer: But is it easy to use ? When you have it on your left side , and project manager: When it's not too big . marketing: M  yeah , maybe it's better if the  scroll-wheels are  industrial designer: Separate , more separate , h yeah . But would it be easy to use then ? If it's like you have a big  project manager: industrial designer: project manager: Very good . marketing: But ,  industrial designer: Personally , I think two scroll buttons  aren't easy to handle . industrial designer: No project manager: Then you go down , you switch , you go into the right , you switch , you go down . But is it  Does that break , a joystick ? Or a small one just like in a laptop . industrial designer: A small one like this , like a Nintendo  k project manager: No just like in a industrial designer: Playstation thing . project manager: Oh the sh Yeah , but then you can industrial designer: Just like a Playstation thing . project manager: So Maybe , if it's possible , it's not too expensive , I think a joystick is better . industrial designer: No , that's okay , I got marketing: And on the L_C_D_ , how much it costs ?  , it costs extra ? industrial designer:  they're not  in details . project manager: industrial designer: It's more expensive or less expensive , huh ? project manager: Yeah we I think you get it . industrial designer: And that's project manager: And  , we If you use the L_C_D_ , we have to industrial designer:  the most expensive . So ,  the shapes of the design depends on the L_C_D_ and But , it has to be small . industrial designer: Or shall we just put it on the pistol thing ? And then just put also on L_C_D_ on it ? project manager: If you have pistol , it L_C_D_'s not easy . industrial designer: If you have a joystick on No , if you have like  an   a ni a  Playstation  game controller . But ,  the easy of user interface: But that's marketing: th the ease of use wasn't  the most important  aspect of it . user interface: industrial designer: project manager: So marketing: project manager: I think it's clear 