user interface:  ? marketing: industrial designer: I'm afraid I'm a bit too slow . project manager:  we're supposed to develop a new remote control , that's both original , trendy and user-friendly . project manager: then we do some in individual work , then we have a meeting to discuss the results , etcetera etcetera . project manager: Okay and in the format menu you can select colour and line width , etcetera etcetera . industrial designer: Different pen widths , how do you do that ? user interface: project manager:  with the format menu . project manager: And what's that supposed to be ? industrial designer: Are you serious ? marketing: Should it be one project manager: Oh yeah . marketing: so y you must save it at the end project manager: Yeah marketing: and then project manager: you can press the next button , which is  yeah . user interface: industrial designer: How much time do we have to draw anyway ? project manager: Yeah . project manager: What is it ? industrial designer: marketing: user interface: It's a it's a giraffe . Yeah I see a long neck user interface: Yeah , that's a project manager: but marketing: It's more like a dinosaur . user interface: industrial designer: Is this part of our a acquai or introduction to each other ? project manager: Yeah sorry , introduction and get acquainted marketing:  project manager: and industrial designer: Alright . user interface: project manager: Yeah it's a bit slow , marketing: It's not that fast . user interface: 'Cause it's so project manager: You were slow too user interface: 'cause it's green . marketing: So  some other line  width  industrial designer: Do you have a turtle pet ? project manager: user interface: marketing: No . marketing: Yeah ? project manager: Yeah not exactly legs but More like fins marketing: industrial designer: Stumpy stuff . user interface: marketing: or project manager: There's a a gum , marketing: Yeah ? Alright . industrial designer: And why did you choose this animal ? marketing: So project manager: He said it was slow . marketing: A cat who had an accident or project manager: Why a cat ? industrial designer:  yeah I dunno . Yeah I'm not so good at drawing with this kind of project manager: The pen , industrial designer: st Oh shit . It's my favourite  pet animal , 'cause they're cute , they're independent and cuddly , I dunno . industrial designer: Or do I need to use more colours and project manager: I think it's okay . Okay industrial designer: So we have to s project manager: now it's time for some discussion . project manager:  did any of you already do some work on this part or industrial designer: Well I started making an overview for myself ,  what I had to do , 'cause we have three design steps and in every step I have a s specific task to perform or whatever . industrial designer: So I had to  , I dunno , make an overview for myself about what I have to do , project manager: industrial designer: and kind of let it work in to get ideas about well how I have to fill it . And do you have any ideas about the product  so far ? industrial designer: Well I started I started with the first phase , I think was the functional . industrial designer: And  let's see I had to focus on the working design , which you said . industrial designer: and we ye use button presses to activate or deactivate certain functions on the T_V_ . Yeah I kept it global 'cause that it activates or deactivates specific functions , user interface: Okay , yeah . project manager:  and what did the Marketing Expert do ? marketing:  well from a marketing  perspective ,  well the function des design phase  consists out of the user requirements . marketing:  what needs and desires are to be fulfilled ? So there are a few means to reach that  by by doing research  to see what existing products are there out in the market . marketing:  especially what are their shortcomings ? Are there any new functions  which can be added to our product ? project manager: For example for  well what kind of applications do current remote controls support , and what are f featur features of  current and future televisions ? project manager: Yep . What w what would they like to see  on a new remote control ?  especially for future users , project manager: Okay . marketing:  I'm thinking of early adopters , because they they use new technology first , project manager: marketing: and they play with a lot of tools and stuff so maybe they have some good ideas to  to add . project manager:  but have you any idea so far as what  the user requirements are ? marketing: No n not specifically . user interface: I got some  requirements marketing: and project manager: Yeah ? user interface: it has  it has to be user-friendly . user interface:  really easy to use buttons , not not  very small buttons , but not the the also the big big buttons , but just normal buttons . project manager:  what do you mean by that ? user interface:  the distance  from your television to your  remote control has to be ,  yeah  yeah , quite a big distance . project manager:  user interface: Are you going to put the the notes on the project manager: Yeah , in the project folder . industrial designer: Well no I'm just a bit wondering what we're gonna do the next  session ? user interface: Yeah . Because then we have a user interface: After that we are going to the conceptual  project manager: Yeah . project manager: Y you do some individual work , marketing: We're just working the three phases . And then I have to prepare  I have to defend our design , user interface: project manager: so make it good . marketing: Better make it industrial designer: I am gonna work on the conceptual design already 'cause yeah it's fairly important to know what kind of components we want to put in . industrial designer: Do we  , is it gonna be a multimedia control centre ? Do we want to be able to use the video recorder with it ? marketing: Yeah . user interface: I would first m industrial designer: So if I don't know what components to put in , it's kind of hard . marketing: Yeah project manager: You can always add a few marketing: well like l li like some like some some remotes who are out there , which I know , there's one button which is very easy to switch between devices . marketing: So you can switch to your video project manager: marketing: and then the same buttons control your video . marketing: And another function I'll think of switch to your media centre , because that's getting very popular . industrial designer: Yeah so marketing: And then use your Windows media centre under your T_V_ with the same remote control . industrial designer: Yeah I I know what you mean , but you'll ne need several other buttons for a video player . industrial designer: And and for a t  teletext you need additional buttons as well , marketing: No . project manager: We could just start with the assumption that's only for T_V_ and video 