project manager: Can I close this ? user interface:  we don't have any changes , do we ? project manager: Oh , okay . Well Ah s Forgot to insert the minutes , but it's about the same thing we discussed before . Well , we discussed the design , no sharp corners , we rounded it off , like you see on the other screen , which is fine . We agreed that we would implement both the L_C_D_ and speech recognition , but I'll get to that in a moment . Nee no , you just go ahead and present the w we'll scrap it later because What ? industrial designer: I think it's more or less the same as we had . user interface: It's basically what we agreed upon , marketing:  ? project manager: Oh that's user interface: but just a little bit more specified . industrial designer: No much s project manager: hasn't changed that much , huh ? industrial designer: No no no , not at all . Basically in what we discussed , cover and buttons will be made of rubber , yellow colour , black components , as you can see right over here . user interface: So Probab project manager: I think that's more I think that's more durable anyway than printed on to user interface: Yeah . user interface: And it I guess it's more easier to just paint it on the rubber industrial designer: Yeah , of course . user interface: that's what we had  We chose the buttons to be  teletext , okay button , favourite channel and the mute . So just half a Euro for You have pushbuttons and an L_C_D_ display . Well think I had the best solution that I came up with is just to s take out the speech recognition . But ninety percent who favour an L_C_D_ display , and only sixty percent that favour speech recognition . I think it's also harder to user interface:  we don't really have a extra function with the speech sample , marketing: Yeah . So and so it's still stuck with thirteen , so I had to take out the special colour I suppose . Yeah , I could take out the push-buttons , marketing: Pushbut project manager: but we need those . So , generally what I came up with , in order to be cou to to have production cost of twelve and a half Euros , spe scrap speech recognition industrial designer: Huh . project manager: and the separate covers can account for the if people want it , we'll just then we'll do it in black . We'll just deliver it in black , have the it has all the function that it's supposed to have , and if you want it if you want the custom design , then you can buy the separate covers . user interface: I'd I tend to disagree with you on that , because the trend issue was a big issue when we started designing this . project manager: It was a big issue , but user interface: So can't we just basically extend it to thirteen ? project manager: I'll just go back .  let's just let's see what okay , let's just see what we no , we we have to be under twelve and a half . marketing: Yeah , it project manager: It it's not marketing: The p project manager:  the project is a no-go if we go over twelve and a half , industrial designer: Okay , but there's another problem . marketing: What industrial designer: If we take another cover , for instance black , then we also need another button frame , 'cause black and black doesn't work obviously . project manager: I think you that's what you were ass assigned to do really , to to see how b th both those work together . project manager: So I think yeah , it's I think it's y one of the it's a good way to  to help people  to make to keep the product trendy too . project manager: And everything that's left is is the basic function that  that we want our product to have . project manager: Then again , we have the L_C_D_ display , which is also expensive . project manager: For you ? industrial designer: Although we are demolishing a little bit the style . marketing: But  the and user interface: I think the colour is more important than the really the curve , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: But project manager: user interface: because if you just end up with an entirely black remote control project manager: I think it's it it does ruin it , marketing: Yeah . The people project manager: but the fact that I t took that decision or t industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: Took this example actually , not really decision , but the example is because we do offer the  the possibility of adding your own custom covers . So it's just you deliver a basic remote control with a possibility to change you into whatever you want . industrial designer: Can we then not also  change the material ? We take plastic for the basic cover project manager: You can take plastic , industrial designer: and project manager: but I d it's something that's stuck into my mind is that something that really came forward from the marketing research is that people like the the the the squishy feeling of the spongy feeling of the marketing: Spongy , yeah . project manager: and it really makes it also makes it different from the existing remote controls , marketing: Yeah . project manager: Rubber would increase durability industrial designer: But project manager: because it doesn't break . But what do you then suggest we'd lose ? Because we have to lose two things and I guess . project manager: I al like I said , I lost the speech recognition and I lost the special colour , marketing: But industrial designer: Yes . industrial designer: Okay , and that's enough ? project manager: Yeah , that's that that that's enough , because user interface: So black and grey is okay . marketing: The people want to pay for for it , so why why  do we have to keep us    on the twelve and a half ? project manager: To ensure the profit . We're just  we're the project team and we got our our orders from the pro from the boss of our company marketing: Yeah .  if we we have the the backup of or the backup design thing marketing: I hope the people will like it , project manager: to have marketing: but project manager: I think they would do . Th I think they do like because yo we you we agree upon that the that the the the cover thing was a nice idea , marketing: project manager: because p you could have all sort of designs while at the same time just manufacturing one product , one basic product which you could turn into any any taste you want . project manager: So I think it's the best solution to make those cu custom covers for the design aspect industrial designer: Perhaps we should make m marketing: Yeah . project manager: and keep the functionality between of within the th the boundaries of the your f  your budget . project manager: So industrial designer: Perhaps we should make clear to our customer that we had to do this to stay under the cost . And that's  they know that this is an option and that we had to drop the option to stay under the cost , that they know that . Is it worth is it is it industrial designer: Perhaps they decide tha user interface: But they don't project manager: does it mean anything to the customer ? Like , it like , we don't care we don't care that you had to industrial designer: Of course . Perhaps they  no , but perhaps they think  okay , the cover is such a nice idea ,  let's that that then they  that allow us to make some more costs . project manager: True , industrial designer: We ca we  we can at least tell them that project manager: but we did we didn't get that . project manager: it should either be a pack , maybe we sh that should be sold in in the s in stores with with a standard cover or something . project manager: But industrial designer: No , I'm not  talking about that cost but the one that g has given us the order to design this . We could at least m  make it like this , like you said , project manager: They could , but  industrial designer: and then tell them okay , we had to drop this and that , just that you know . project manager: So it's either one fi just just to get it f just to get it through final , it's either turned into plastic , drop the squishy feel , make it make it more breakable , marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: I'd say lose the curve and the colour project manager: I say lose the curve . Oh that's true , industrial designer: and project manager: we could lose the c I forgot that , yeah , sorry . So user interface: So which curve is that ba project manager: That's just this one just d this is the banana curve . project manager: So I think it would be a good idea to keep the curve to separate it from the rest of the remote control world , so to speak . user interface: I would project manager: And I'm in favour of keeping the rubber , because it has more more advantages than the colour yellow has . user interface: because that's an extra option , an extra service we can deliver for a little bit of more money . So I think we can take that option and just with  with the idea in the back of our head that you can customise your remote control . project manager: I sort of expected that everything would turn out this way , but because you yeah , everything cannot be for free . We didn't I think it was too bad we didn't have the financial info the last time . project manager: it was really essential really user interface: we could have project manager: to ma because we spent   entire stage designing a product of which we had no idea what it would cost . marketing: project manager: So industrial designer: Me too , I felt a bit blind throughout the project , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: because in the beginning I had no list of available materials , project manager: Yeah , I think would have been . project manager: Materials would be ok industrial designer: and then I d had not list of available c finances . industrial designer: So project manager: So I suppose marketing: Let's  see  project manager: Yeah , let's see if it sells . project manager:  it's got everything for the for the reasonable price , because we didn't know what it's gonna cost anyway . I  will pre present  some statements and we will decided together wha what if it's true or false project manager: Okay . I thought it was okay , but the advanced  settings ,  screen , audio and channel project manager: They're stuck under menu . project manager: because we we really took them for the they have the feel they want , marketing: Oh the menu button is it . marketing: Then it's all  S project manager: I think it's very  very well met . marketing: it's red , okay , but Look and feel is everybo it's true . marketing: So Anyone ? And the next one  yeah , when it's lost  you can find it . marketing: It's project manager: It's I don't think it's perfect , but we did everything possible to to get it back . industrial designer: I think the L_C_D_ display could be a little bit more difficult then a normal remote control , marketing: But I think that's a part of it . So marketing: Yeah , an L_C_D_ , it tells a lot about  user interface: And it's pretty straight-forward , industrial designer: Yeah , I th project manager: It's pretty straight-forward , -huh . user interface: you have a navigation no keys to navigate through the L_C_D_ menus . user interface: So marketing: So it's a one user interface: One I d no , marketing: or a I don't know . user interface: actu project manager: I think but we didn't even marketing: For the advanced  settings . project manager: but I don't think it takes no , it really does doesn't take time to learn , I think . We took it s it's so easy , user interface: No , it it is pretty straight-forward . marketing: Oh , so it project manager: we have so little button , everything speaks for itself really . marketing: Takes no ti project manager: Maybe it's a two , because d  the L_C_D_ is a little is a little new and there is there are some option hidden under the menu button . marketing: But it tells you or not ? project manager: You can use the L_C_D_ in a good way . I think it's perfect , the w where it is , what it can do , if it useful . What are we  displaying on the L_C_D_ screen ? Just  only the channels and or industrial designer: the menus  Things like brightness and  those kind of things we've put in the menu , marketing: What  ? industrial designer: because we have no buttons for those . marketing: And for a channel selection ,  or that's not project manager: Well I thought it was I thought it was I thought that people wanted previews on their I'm not sure if that even possible , marketing: Yeah , I thought I thought too project manager: but marketing: but project manager: 'cause it's this requires a quite quite a bit of band-width . marketing: Maybe a T_V_ guide or something in your L_C_D_  project manager: But I think in for example like T_V_ guides , I think that's that th that you can transmit through it and everything . project manager: But also things like like like menus or p how about preferences of your  with configuring your remote control for favourite your favourite channel for example , how do you configure that . No , maybe it's not a one because it's we're not using it perfectly . project manager: marketing: So everybody's agree with an  three on it , project manager: Yeah , we are using it , user interface: Yeah . marketing: it's project manager: but it's not marketing: W project manager: it's not poorly used , but it's not efficiently used , I think . project manager: We could have ev even lost the selection button and  done everything via L_C_D_ selection . project manager: It's now it's just extra to illustrate im  extra features , marketing: Yeah , I project manager: but okay .  that's  industrial designer: Think about project manager: Can you talk to remote control ? user interface: Or we could say it project manager: Well , it can't talk anymore . user interface: Or we could say neutral , project manager: Oh yeah user interface: we 'cause we scratched the project manager: Just to be a prick , user interface: C project manager: but of course you can talk to your remote control , it doesn't do anything . project manager: Yeah , special co but we took into consideration the fact that it's customisable user interface: So I marketing: Yeah , project manager: to the fashi marketing: but we user interface: Yes , but the end product So industrial designer:  . marketing: yeah , we don't have it , so d project manager: We don't have it we do have it , marketing: In the end product . user interface: Maybe we should go with a two then , marketing: But it's not a one . user interface: because it's not perfect , because we can't do it initially , marketing: Yeah . project manager: but you have to pay extra for the for the possibility of having it in a f a different colour . marketing:  So project manager: marketing: we can say it's it's the product is it's okay . project manager: It's okay , but that's yo m marketing: Y not industrial designer: project manager: mostly it's it's influenced by the fact that we didn't have enough resources to implement speech recognition . project manager: Without that it would be like under it wouldn't yeah , it would be under two . user interface: Yeah , if we make it into a four , as in neutral , because we didn't implement it , so we can't say that we that it's really not well implemented . user interface: So We could definitely have done better if we've had more resources , industrial designer: of course . user interface: but project manager: Yeah , I think it's probably I industrial designer: project manager: I do admit that we d did miss a little or didn't sp didn't talk talk enough about the possibility of the L_C_D_ display . project manager: So like I said , changing channels , everything hidden in your L_C_D_ display , so you just need the navigation buttons to do everything . project manager: I think we div I think we did very well , industrial designer: It's a good product . industrial designer: But if pep people really want speech recognition , then they must be prepared to pu to pay more , because it's cannot be done for this . project manager: They sh they should get kids , and just stick 'em in T_V_ and say change the channel . industrial designer: You cannot th think of that project manager: Or your sh you should lose the L_C_D_ screen probably , industrial designer: No , it's not . project manager: but I think that's I think the L_C_D_ screen is more worth than speech recognition . user interface: So did you project manager: Let's see , what was left in the the Another one . General project , what's i in For example , I thou I thought we were pretty creative in what we created . We took the whole new approach of making exchangeable cover for example , which I thought was pretty creative , because it was never never ever listed somewhere . Because , yeah was very hard to work with one another if you cannot communicate in the meantime , industrial designer: Yes . project manager: because when I got the when I got the input for the financial results , initially of course I wanted to contact you . project manager: Say , look , this is you're doing the wrong thing , marketing: Yeah . project manager: you're s you're wasting your time now , because we're implementing stuff that we cannot afford . project manager: because that's that's what would w you what you would normally do , either call or email someone . project manager: It didn't have industrial designer: So project manager: or didn't knew what they costs or whatever . project manager: There was just too little information about what things actually cost and if you could use them . I think  s especially for design issues , it's very easy just to give your give your thoughts a little it's easier to share them . user interface: Although for actual design I'd say the response time should be a little bit higher , industrial designer:  . project manager: It's a little less it the response time is le it's very bad . project manager: It's good to visualise everything , but I think the response time should could be a lot better .  you have to finish a page before going to a n project manager: No , you don't have to . marketing: You can project manager: I just you just ditch it and you can copy it or whatever . industrial designer: Okay , I saw that  project manager:  only if you  check the notes or press done . industrial designer: Yeah , project manager: You can just preview your p you can just preview your page in the in the programme . And when the third one was finished , I wanted to download it and then it was not possible anymore , because you have to close all the pinnits  the pages before going further . industrial designer: That's not very  handy , project manager: That's industrial designer: but if you know that , then it's not a problem . Any new ideas ? Yeah , more communication between between  that's the thing I noticed , that communication is very  very important , industrial designer: marketing: Important to  project manager: because if you get new information , it's essential f for the other team-mates to know that as soon as possible , because you would avoid making doing extra work , because you were doing extra work now  m working on the on the speech recognition , you have limitation both on the technical on the d on the design side . But that's I think it's more of a a setting here that you cannot communicate than  than somewhere else . project manager: So user interface: Yeah , well it could also possibly be well , is it a more real-time information base , so we can all see which information is available to one another . I'm not sure i I'm not sure you got spammed as well , industrial designer: project manager: but I get spammed like every t every two minutes there was a there was another email about master classes or something . So I just user interface: Well , I personally did not have that , marketing:  project manager: Oh okay . project manager: I didn't have any  more information , it's just always the same here . So I'd I had no extra information to go on that one than what you give me actually . project manager: yeah , w I could have done a little extra work probably , then marketing: it's project manager: But I was busy enough anyway . project manager: Any new ideas found ? Or is that a 'cause  yeah , it's well , industrial designer: No . user interface: How much time do we have for this anyway ? project manager: I have no clue . project manager: if the project is evaluated and it was it was in b within budget , we should celebrate . project manager: I'm not sure what we should still do though  t let's see what all your tasks were finished , right ? What you ha from your assistant . project manager: Okay , marketing: Yeah , project manager: I should I think I sh marketing: my personal coach i project manager: I still have the the total report to finish up . I think we took very little time now , because Yeah , we're in agreement , everything the design is okay . marketing: What industrial designer: No , project manager: How about you cook a how about you cook up a product name ? user interface: Product name .  user interface: Well ,  I was going for the R_C_ deluxe , but it's not really a catchy name or anything , project manager: No , user interface: it's more project manager: it's industrial designer:  at least it's not something with numbers . user interface: Is that a name or a c campaign ? marketing: project manager: No that's a that's a catchy slogan . Something like It's short f industrial designer: The Real Reactor , I don't find that  that bad at all . user interface: Should I write the banana down or project manager: I take f marketing: Yeah , sure . user interface: You mean it like this ? industrial designer: Yeah , that marketing: Real Reaction Remote Control . It should be it should be longer , because it's not a product name that you f print on a box . project manager: Just write out triple , like a word triple R_C_ , triple stripe Oh . Triple R_ or triple R_C_ ? user interface: Like a C_ right now or a dash in a C_ ? marketing: Triple R_ dash .  I think that the the R_C_ together takes away the the the image of it's a triple industrial designer:  . project manager:  the first the first one looks like it's a triple remote control , industrial designer:  . project manager: Yeah , triple R_ yeah , you can user interface: Well , that's another option . industrial designer: did you do now ? project manager: Just like this just and you just print triple R_ , it looks doesn't look bad , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: Could you guys draw me a picture of the final design to put on the cover of the report ? user interface: Yeah , sure . marketing: industrial designer: Can't we take this one ? marketing: Oh sh industrial designer: Otherwise we have to do it all over again . marketing:  user interface: I don't really know whether we can save it as a picture or no . industrial designer: Is it okay if I try ? Is that okay with you ? user interface: Sure 