project manager: I just forgot their name , so  you're i sorry , I just forgot them all . project manager: W_I_E_S_ z Z_ or S_ ? user interface: A_ E_ Z_ zee zee project manager:   zee . industrial designer: I was a little short on time , project manager: Yeah , me too , so that's not industrial designer: but user interface: Yeah , same here . Which one was mine ? project manager: So let's have a look , we have forty minutes , so it's it's more than enough . So we have Oh no , what's that ? So so we have  forty minutes for this  for this second meeting , and we have to make  sure that we going t that we are sure , that we are , user interface: Good . project manager: that we know what we're going to make  th what the product is going to like look like . How do I escape this ? How do I I escape this s  presentation ? industrial designer: What ? user interface:  left . Okay , so the f the f the points we had last meeting was the  Should be a univ  universal remote control No , that's I  s I just got a email from the from the personal coach and it should be a T_V_ remote control only . project manager:  so yeah , it still has to be  f a r a remote control for kids and elderly . project manager:  so So yeah , that's it , so just you can do your presentation for  user interface: Which one first ? marketing: Okay . Well my name is Jens Damman , but we're in a group , and I I will start it . project manager: I I didn't read i read it , so it's not for me , marketing: You didn't read it ? project manager: I didn't get it  anyway . project manager: The last point is quite an interesting marketing: Yes , fifty percent of users say they only use ten percent of the buttons . marketing: And  maybe our  fold open system is is a good one , but I don't think it's  project manager: Yeah , we should have the ten percent on the on the top , marketing: reachable . project manager: then you're you're marketing: Yeah , the ten percent on the top , yeah . That's exactly what we said about  maybe a home station for  for it  to  recharge the batteries or something .  I thought mo maybe we could make a clap system , so when you clap your hands it will beep or something . Because if we make a ha whole new product , our own style , we we c  this is so difficult ,  a difficulty I think . Yeah , but only if they zap a lot , and they watch over five hours T_V_ or something . I don't We we haven't  we mustn't look too much at  the last point .   they finally had a conclusion that younger people   under an age of f forty five are  more interested in new features . But  they  they don't want to  have a lot of  new features , because they're in their old  thinking way . marketing: But y But you but you already said that the  company was about  forty plus  clients ? project manager: People . So yeah , so we just can skip the L_C_D_ r on the remote control , marketing: I I think we can speak ,  we can skip speech recognition  directly , user interface: Yeah . Okay , that's not very good , because I thought about television , D_V_D_ player , stereo and V_C_R_ .  my point is , well , I If we ma  make a a remote  control for only television , I think it's hard to  sell it for twenty five Euros . marketing: Yeah , only only for television  On the market you can now buy for twenty Euros a remote control for everything . And we only make it for television , so we mi  we m must made it make it  very special . I think the main thing is the usability , that's where we can  make it a special product . marketing: to k to keep it simple when you user interface: But  we also have to stand out , industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: 'cause there are already , like you said , so many controls out that support lot of stuff . But we have to make sure that we're better usability , and stand out by just looks of it . project manager: It's on the on the  net net  thing , user interface: There it is . project manager: So what do you think of only the numbers and the on-off button or user interface: Yeah , I have it on the next page .  so the options that we put on there should be easy to use , and 'cause you have more room then , and for elderly people big buttons .  a way to find out  what people use is maybe just to use  questionnaires on the internet or just ask some random people , elderly people what they use , what they want on a remote control project manager: Yeah . And I found an  Could I think of favourites ? I always look up the same  pages on text and always have to click the number . user interface: But if you could make a new option , that you just have to press one button and you get on your industrial designer: Yeah , but then you have to remember what favourite is what channel . Or not ? project manager: Maybe i maybe it's too complicated , user interface: No y project manager: but not sure . user interface: Well project manager: It's a good idea , but user interface: it's It was just a thought . So I'm , I u I would find it handy , I think , when you just press one button and you get on six six six . But  how can you remember what  channel  connects to what favourite button ? user interface: Well  project manager:  user interface: what I was reading on the page . user interface: Well if you said a favourite industrial designer: Yeah , but isn't it hard to remember ? Like favourite one and project manager:  mayb for me it's user interface: Well i project manager: If I use my telephone , I never use those buttons to to to call sh Never . project manager: So user interface: Oh are you ? project manager: And user interface: Okay now , m maybe not . project manager: If I don't do it , maybe old people user interface: No , maybe elderly people  . I dunno if that's usable project manager: It's not , it's still not It's not anymore n  user interface: when Not anymore for T_V_ . I dunno , miss Did I miss any other buttons , basic buttons ? I couldn't think of any other , 'specially not for T_V_ . Previous I know , but next channel ? user interface: Just the channel   What  is  industrial designer: I don't thi marketing: Forward . industrial designer: But   there's also a button to  go to the channel you've been before . project manager:  Yeah , user interface: I don't have  I did project manager: I know what it is , but I think it's all too difficult for old people . project manager: And how do you want to  do it , like if you have a channel above ten ? industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: Normally you can press one , zero or user interface: Yeah , I think  f Especially for older peo elderly people use standard buttons . So you have that  project manager: A ten plus or user interface: Yeah , the ten plus button . industrial designer: Yeah , w wouldn't it be a problem to  Because you h have to be fast enough . marketing: Yeah , it's it's no it's not a user interface: So you have  like a five seconds period to press those two buttons . It's the T_V_ who depends that it must be two seconds or three seconds or one second that you must  type one or two . user interface: So if you have a universal T_V_ controller , you needed one button that has two  stripes . user interface: So we have a a period of , I dunno , five seconds to press those buttons , and that And not for elderly people to look , one two  press and aim and industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: But do we still need a two level remote control ? Because if we only have that l only f marketing: It's only for television now . user interface: so you have industrial designer: I I think you ha really have to divide between functions you often use , like   m maybe  switch channels and  volume and k that kind of things , and  the menu button . user interface: Yeah , okay , industrial designer: So user interface: but  project manager: Maybe it's still still a good idea , I'm not sure . You'll also have to use a mute button to to user interface: Yeah , a mute button . user interface: Yeah well , marketing: user interface: that's that's I think that's the layers that produce . So when you are in the shop and you see our T_V_ controller hanging , that it stands out . It looks very cheap if you make it user interface: Well , maybe you can look at  mobile phones . marketing: user interface: Who ? project manager: Yeah , we have to look at mobile phones , that's right . You think you can't make a T_V_ controller too small , 'cause then you will always lo always lose it .  basically what happens is you press a button ,  then a circuit gets closed by pressing the button ,  like a switch . So that's er  do two different things project manager: So we we also have to have a LED li LED light on it ? industrial designer: but Yeah . user interface:  j Is industrial designer: I I'm not sure if it's the same thing . user interface: Ain't it just to to indicate that it's transmitting ? marketing: Yeah , that's active . project manager: Or just a green one , user interface: So project manager: because it's If you use it , it's green or the red , it's r green . project manager: But if you industrial designer: So marketing: I it's it's just  the the project manager: Red's l shows up like something's wrong , industrial designer: Two ? project manager: and green is like it's okay , you press the button . user interface: Maybe depends on  industrial designer: Ma on on most on most   remote controls it's red . industrial designer: I I think  the batteries will be  a little user interface:  Oh , marketing: Empty . Just  project manager: No , we have a recharger in it , so user interface: Oh . It's it's not very important , project manager: Green or red or whatever , it is cool . We have to really understand what patterns are used , so we can  o On the Otherwise it won't work . user interface: So we have to  make buttons for that as well , to make it  industrial designer: No . So we have to make a chip that produces patterns to , y you know , to user interface: Okay . user interface: Well , I I use a universal  remote control , marketing:  I kno user interface: and list of all the T_V_s you have , etcetera . user interface: industrial designer: marketing: And the modern one you you  you type  search , and the LED began to blink blink blink . industrial designer: So it  We have to make a a s a bit more intelligent chip than the standard one . project manager: I just say Can you s just say it again , because I was just looking There's just a short industrial designer:  okay . industrial designer: And  by d  that can be done by  just  cha yeah , changing this pattern all the time . industrial designer: And  What he's doing when he's configuring this pattern , this chip ,  is trying to switch off the television . And when it's  switched off , you can push a button as  it's working now , so And then he saves that setting project manager: Okay . marketing: industrial designer: Yeah , that's a bit technical , and I hadn't I w I was a little short on time . To flash up your industrial designer: Yeah marketing:  if you if you use the buttons ,  both of them works . Because  when you button press a button and it doesn't work , it can Basically if the battery is low , it won't work . project manager: Yeah , but if you u if you do that , you know that you're  sending a signal . project manager: And it's you also know which button you p marketing: But then have to be on the in the all  remote control have to be LEDs . But it marketing: Everywhere in the r project manager: But does it make any difference for the energy you use ? You got still one LED . user interface: No I don't think so , but Yeah , i it it will look different , and I think we need to find something else . user interface: 'Cause otherwise we will just make another standard , and our  motto also is marketing: Is LEDs  beneath the the buttons ? user interface: Yeah , w around the buttons , or in the buttons even . industrial designer: Yeah , but  like when you push it user interface: Yeah , then then won't Then you won't see it . Or or m maybe on top of the A green light is flashing marketing: Yeah , then industrial designer: or marketing: Yeah . marketing: Maybe  project manager: The same as a telephone , or a mobile phone , or what do you mean ? user interface: Yeah , we're thinking about it . project manager: If you push user interface:  on a mobile phone , in the dark  project manager: It lights up . user interface: Yeah , if  a mobile phone a phone can do it , it's marketing: Okay . user interface: Yeah , i if you're in the dark , you can't see the remote . But if we use a battery station , which I think we will use marketing: Yeah , project manager: Yeah , that's a good idea , okay . We'll have enough power project manager: Everything agre industrial designer: to project manager: Everyone agrees with that , or Okay . marketing: Maybe what Paul said ,  under the on the on the home station ,  a button to  to call your  remote control , that it beeps . Because it's i it has to be marketing: twenty five Euros , I think we can make it . Are you almost finished or just industrial designer: Yeah , the the personal preference , I didn't fill it out . I don't think so , industrial designer: No , project manager: but industrial designer: and I I think a lot of people use  teletext , still use . project manager: Yeah , and it's it's on your comp it's on your television . user interface: That's important I think and marketing: L_C_D_ doesn't work for  twelve and a half Euros I think . user interface: And I d I don't don't think it's very usable in a remote control , especially when you only have T_V_ functions on it . user interface: So industrial designer:  ah I I don't y you'll use it often , because you can see on the television wh what channel you marketing: Oh , I'm watching  the channel one . No , it's not user interface: Yeah , I tho I think that's not usable . And  then the usability is not that required , because the Like in the mobile phones , usability is not that good I think . Is that reachable maybe ? industrial designer: I didn't read marketing: That's very That's fancy . But marketing: If it's possible , industrial designer: Yeah , project manager: I don't think it's very expensive actually . project manager: Why should it ? user interface: Yeah , I think it's marketing:  if i if i project manager: You only have a microphone in it . And and and does it have to work only in English , or in Dutch too or project manager: Nah , maybe marketing: Ah that's a problem , but industrial designer: And and  w Yeah ? marketing:  only in English .  does your  Does it lie in the centre of the room and can you scream from wherever industrial designer: Yeah , it's probably my job to figure that out , but user interface:  one to have in channel one ? marketing: No , that Yeah , then th we have to think about that . But do do we do it ? user interface: Yeah , marketing: It's more if we if we do it . user interface: Is project manager: It We have short time to to put it on the market , industrial designer: Yeah , I dunno . marketing: Yeah , and  and  user interface: It's marketing: In  indeed  the languages are a difficult thing . I don't think it's  useful enough to take the effort to design something with  speech recognition . industrial designer: Yeah , and also if if you have a good speech  speech recognition , you can just throw the  marketing: Yeah . user interface: but marketing: Okay , but th that becomes your f   because that's very hard for  speech recognition . project manager: you can see on the  So we have to know what we're going to put on . Do we , do we make  a light under the under the n under the numbers and everything ? Do user interface: Yeah , I think so . project manager: If you press something , it lights up for a few seconds , so you can see what other but buttons there are , okay ? industrial designer: Yeah , that's good . So  It lights up when it's dark ? project manager: Yeah , but it's Oh th I thought would , that that would be the same . user interface: I didn't project manager: If you push something , it it all lights up . Yeah yeah , user interface: Yeah , but  marketing: it it mustn't work all the time . marketing: So if you user interface: Or maybe when you marketing: No , if you use one button , it must turn  on for twenty seconds , and then it must turn off . project manager: And do we use a a  what's it called ? Like a iMac , if you can look through it . project manager: so y you just make it th through You look through it ? marketing: A see-through . We put in the the simple buttons on the top , user interface: It's the standard project manager: and probably the the the more complicated buttons down there . project manager: Yeah , maybe you have you have to  when you use teletec teletext , you can press a green or a red button to go to the next one , or to go to the previous one . With just  standard buttons we just have so little project manager: O but maybe you can put  the g the options of teletext on the second level of the remote control . user interface: No , I don't need don't need  teletext options are only four buttons or something . industrial designer: Yeah , but younger people I think  more often use the internet and elderly people often use teletext .  marketing: user interface: How long is lunch break ? project manager: So yeah , you know what you have to do 