 I'm the Project Manager of this project , and  , well I will tell you on what actually is the project .  there are cameras industrial designer: project manager: everywhere around the room especially here for your face , of course , and this isn't a pie , it's a a set of microphones industrial designer: project manager: and there are microphones here also .  well  user interface: Well industrial designer: project manager: I said I'm the Project Manager and  I'm hoping  for a good project and  I'd like to hear  who you are and what your functions are  on this project . industrial designer: Okay ,  I'm  I'm the Industrial Designer and I  hope to  look forward to  a very  pleasing  end of this  project .  well I said  we're working on a project and the aim for the project is to to create a to design a new remote control which  has to be original , trendy and of course , user friendly . As you can see , all of these phases consists of two parts , namely individual work part and a meeting where we will discuss  our work so far .  as you also noticed  this presentation document is in our  project folder and every document you put in this folder  is  it is possible to show that here in our meeting room .  and yeah there are available on both smart boards but I think we will  mainly use this one for the documents in the shared folder .  the most functions  we will use will be to to add a new page ,   to go back and forward between pages , and of course  to save it every now and then .  and this is the pen with which you can draw on the board , for instance like this if everything's okay , user interface: project manager: but I first have to put it on the pen , you see I'm new to it too . project manager: As you can see you have to move it a little bit slow , it's not such a fast board , it's a smart board but also a slow board . industrial designer: user interface: project manager:  but you can write things and of course you can also , when you click here ,  erase things , so we have  est left . project manager: Well you can erase it with the eraser , but  you shouldn't delete an entire page , but just create a new blank one . marketing: S project manager: I will delete this one now because we don't use it yet . project manager: But you can of course erase when you make a mistake , but don't  delete entire pages . And you can also  let's see I think it's here  change the  colour of your pen , for instance take a blue one and  change the line width like to five .  that's what you will need for our first exercise , because I'm  going to ask you to draw your favourite animal . user interface: industrial designer: project manager: It's also to gets to know each other because  I'm asking three things ,  for that  drawing , industrial designer: Okay . project manager: to do it on a blank sheet , with different colours and I just showed you how to pick a colour , and also with different pen widths which I also showed you . Well I'm not very good at drawing , but I will  go first and  try to draw user interface: project manager: Or maybe you should guess what I'm drawing , eh . And I hope our project group will not be slow , industrial designer: project manager: but we will  work to a good result industrial designer: project manager: and do it  as fast as we can . user interface: marketing: I think it's easy to r  to recognise as a giraffe . marketing: Anything else you need to know ? project manager: Could you write the words ,  underneath it ? Or more words . industrial designer: marketing: user interface: Well  industrial designer: user interface: you can guess what it is , I hope . project manager: industrial designer: I've I've  user interface: industrial designer: Eraser . I can see we have some  drawing talent  in this group , industrial designer: user interface: Not really . And we're hoping for a aim of fifty million Euros and  we are hoping to achieve that  by aiming for an international market .  what's your experience with remote controls ,  what kind of ideas do you have to design a new remote control , maybe for which market segments should we aim , or should we aim for all segments . marketing: Yeah but then again you you still have a lot of buttons , user interface: Yeah , that's right . industrial designer: Yeah marketing: so industrial designer: but you could  I thin  there's a possibility to g  to  to put those buttons  behind some  kind of  protection marketing: Flap user interface: Right . Yeah , okay , that's possible , industrial designer: That's possible , so that you only get the marketing: but it'll get very big the the remote control . industrial designer: No n n no , just  for example you got th  the same size  remote control you use everyday , but  the usual buttons such as   zapping  as you call it in Dutch . Because  things for  teletext , I dunno  , w industrial designer: marketing: - , of course . project manager: So you don't want to bother people with  loads of buttons , but on the other hand they need many buttons marketing: No . user interface: But if if it's if it's international you should  look in think in Britain they have  different things they can do with the T_V_ , or so  that you can choose what you want to see . I dunno if you should  take that in consideration , or that you just should aim for the normal T_V_s industrial designer:  . marketing: Yeah I think that's the better one , user interface: And the B_B_C_ . marketing: because I think if you you're going to target a lot of people and the whole world and only Britain then I think the cost will  rise higher than the twelve fifty , I think . So  I think  when p  when  the customers will buy this remote control , they already have  the remote control which  companies   with  the the standards  remote control with which comes  with the television . user interface: Well industrial designer: In those in that user interface: but marketing: No but user interface: but then you have to to find your other remote control if you want to search . Yeah , th it it's I think that's not user interface: That's not industrial designer: Yeah but I but it is impossible to  to accommodate  accommodate  all the buttons on the s on the difference different televisions sets on one remote control . industrial designer: Because  for example Sony television  has the opportunity to s to make   to make it possible for to see on one side of the screen  teletext , and on the other side  just n  regular television . industrial designer: Because you can't use a Panasonic  remote control on a on a Philips television . marketing: Yeah , but then you have to choose the always with r universal remotes you have to choose the code . But I think like the two pages on the same screen , like teletext and normal television , that's that's nowadays standard , I think . industrial designer: but  I think that most people  th  will buy the remote control because because  the first they lost the one they lost first one marketing: Simplicity . user interface: and c if you look into the future , then they want will want the button , if their thing is broke .  our next meeting  will start well we're a little bit early , but our next meeting will start in in thirty minutes . industrial designer: user interface: project manager: In the meantime  there's time for some  individual actions . project manager: that's good , five minutes and  the meeting's over ,  right on schedule . industrial designer: No , user interface: No industrial designer: the Industrial Designer will take a look at the working design , user interface: the Yeah . industrial designer: and the in  usability interaction user interface: project manager: Industrial Designer , okay , industrial designer: Yeah , okay . user interface: So So I should look at  what you should be able to do with the remote , or  , or how I don't really project manager:  well those instructions will be  in the email you will receive  shortly , I hope . project manager: No ? Okay well I think then we have to head  back to our offices and  start working . marketing: Where does it says we have to make a remote , because I presumed She didn't know who . project manager: Okay , well I expect everything will be much clearer with the instructions we will receive  shortly 