 important thing of this phase is that we're going to  try to get an agreement about the user requirements , technical function design , and the working design . That that means that you can have a little trouble with , little trouble with the air conditioning , that's because of this  user interface: Okay . But it's going to be cold anyway , so I don't think you're gonna need it . So  I suggest we take about seven minutes per presentation , and then we can have a little discussion about the new project requirements  which have been sent to me . And then the decision on the control functions  which we wanna include and those which we don't wanna include . So marketing: project manager: Just maybe it's easier if you  Yeah I think you will tell your presentation as well . Fifty percent of the people indicated they only loo used about ten percent of the buttons on a remote control . Channel selection and volume selection  both got a ten on a scale of one to ten for relevancy . So  the users of forty six to sixty five years cons The make up forty percent of the market .  this also makes up most the biggest part of the market , so that will also be where our main profit would be gettable .  The results also indicated that  about one quarter of the people questioned thought that the remote control caused R_S_ R_S_I_ . And thirty four percent thought that it was hard to learn a n how to operate a new control , remote control . And the functionality As a lot of people indicated , they only use about ten percent of the buttons , I think we should make very few buttons .  Then as mo as a lot of people indicated that their  remote got lost in the room , it might be and I say might be because it would  certainly boost the  production costs a lot . And this would , could get a button in it which would send a signal to the remote which would then beep . And in addition to this it could  recharge the batteries in the remote if you put it in . Then  a surprisingly great deal of people w indicated that  an L_C_D_ screen in the remote control would be preferred . This would also greatly increase the production costs but I think these are just some small factors we could consider . So anybody have  any questions until now ? marketing: Any questions ? project manager: About functional requirements ? user interface: project manager: We've got  plenty of time , user interface:  ? marketing: Yeah project manager: so marketing: you should go to the top thingy .   I've do I've  done a little  research on the internet and not much information about it ,  about  interface but   Yeah I I've been thinking about a simple manner  to put a lot of functions   in one  in one  remote control .  so  you've got a lot of devi  devices like  D_V_D_   television ,  stereo . Got  many functions in one  remote control ,  but  yeah you can see , this is  quite simple  remote control .   people  don't like it ,  so  Well what  I was  thinking about was   keep the general functions  like they are . So  Wh what I was th  thinking about was  you've got   this the remote control  project manager: industrial designer: user interface: and  you got here the general functions ,  like  the on-off button  sound  I dunno  And  here you've got a s kind of a display . So  yeah you got a general f  f the functions of the device  for a D_V_D_ player or  so  the pl yeah  f for  playing  reverse  . So  this button is for a D_V_D_ or So  for every  device you've got a  a f a b a part  display of a part buttons . user interface: So project manager: Anybody has questions about the technical functions ? industrial designer: Well project manager: industrial designer: I think if we are gonna use a touchscreen  we're gonna go way above the twelve and a half Euros . project manager:  maybe we can first  listen to your presentation ? marketing: We would have to look into that . project manager: marketing: project manager: I think it's going to  it's not too much . The remote determines what button it is , uses the infrared to send a signal to the T_V_ . When the user presses a button , a signal got sent , goes to the LED and transmits tranmi transmits its to the T_V_ .  I think we should focus on aesthetics , the design and the user interface , because if you're going to use high-tech materials the price is going to go sky-high . And  you only have to design a remote once , and if you use high-tech materials it come back in every product . So it's , in my idea , it's  it's gonna be smart to invest in di in design and not in  in the product itself . marketing: project manager:  Okay now I hope everybody has a little bit more insight in the functions we all have and what we are doing right now .  I'm the Project Manager so I'm here to mess things up and  tell you some new  requirements . user interface: industrial designer: marketing: project manager:  that's , we've  got to design a  remote which is only suitable for T_V_ . project manager: and the time to market will be too big , if we wanna have it  for more functions . project manager:  another point is we have to skip the teletext , because in the world of  upcoming internet  we think teletext is going to be  a thing of the past .  that's the the market we have to to to target , because we are going to develop a new product which is specially designed for the younger customers . So we have to find a market which is above forty plus  but which will suit our  remote control , and the other way round . marketing: So is there any discussion possible about the new product requirement ? project manager:  we can see if we can find a way  between the functions we wanna use and the market we wanna reach with our product . marketing: Yeah 'cause you're you're saying that teletext is gonna be an old feature and it's not gonna be used anymore anyway pretty soon . project manager: marketing: But I think if you're targeting people of forty plus , the chance that they will have a T_V_ with internet access within the next like twenty years is very slim . But  if I s if I see this , it's I think we're just gonna go for another project manager: Yeah it's it is user interface: forty project manager: Standard remote . marketing: pretty project manager: No I think we can marketing: and not innovative project manager: I think we can do a lot with the design and the simple buttons marketing: remote control .  if we put a lot of effort in those , we can make a remote control with  just two or three buttons . Or just a remote which is suitable for the market we wanna reach because it is forty percent of the market . project manager: And  if you look in Holland at the whole generation of forty plus , fifty plus , it it's the the biggest share of the of the whole population now . marketing: And besides that , they're not very critical so  they don't really care what the remote control is like . project manager: But don't you think that if we make a remote which is  typically made for this market , that people think the people think that's the the device I've looked for although I didn't realise it . marketing: People of forty plus ,  they want it to work , but as soo as soon as it works it's okay with them . industrial designer: I think that if we're If we put our marketing right  we can sell this just like  I don't know if you've heard about it in the news , the the elderly mobile phone ? marketing: So project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: Yeah if we if we make a remote control just l with that idea in mind , we could make tons of money , I think . industrial designer: We don't have to focus on on on the on the design then but on functionality . project manager:  I simply think  user interface: project manager:  that the new products we are gonna make ,  spef specifically design , are designed for  younger people ,  so maybe we can focus ourself on the elderly people . project manager: No we we haven't voted yet , so user interface: project manager:  I think teletext can be   can be a function as well . But only if  if it won't higher the the cost , because I don't know if it will be a lot more money to implement teletext as well , but I don't think it will be a problem . Or is teletext a user interface: But  deaf people need  teletext for  for subtitles . So I suggest  marketing: I think it'd definitely be a bad idea not to include teletext . Maybe we can make that  another point of advantage in our remote control , if we  make a k a button ex for example for big subtitles , which is instantly on the remote control . marketing: But I don't think that's really an issue any more 'cause Well might be . user interface: If it's only for televi marketing: But  it , if it's only for T_V_ you're not gonna need a lot of buttons anyway . marketing: You need a one to zero button , next channel , previous channel , user interface: Yeah . But do you need user interface: So we can s we can skip the display , marketing: I think if you if you only l user interface: so  we don't need it . project manager: Maybe c we can user interface:  marketing: Think if you're gonna include teletext you do . marketing: 'Cause if you should , if you want to switch from channel one to like thirty five , you don't wanna push the next channel button thirty five times . project manager: No , maybe we can implement the scroll button ? Or a joystick like ? user interface:  . marketing: That's true but  I don't think there are many T_V_s that can switch channels that fast . And so you would need like the T_V_ would need an a function where you can actually view all channels and scroll through it . industrial designer: And besides that it's  If we're gonna focus on elderly people they'll have to adapt . Yeah they can see how much buttons there are going to be on on the display , and if it's too much we can  reconsider it . marketing: But I don't think I think if you're gonna make a remote control only to operate a T_V_ , you there's not much you can gain on  having as few buttons as possible . 'Cause I think there are pretty many remote controls that can only operate a T_V_ , which already only have the minimum number of buttons . And if you have less buttons you can do a lot more with marketing: That is true but I think there's simply not much to gain on the competition when you when you're making a remote control only for to operate only the T_V_ . marketing: 'Cause if you have a a remote control only to operate a T_V_ there's simply not a lot of buttons required . There's not a lot of functions required so most existing remote controls simply don't have a lot of buttons either . marketing: which was one of the arguments to make it only for the T_V_ because we didn't have the time to market a lot . Well yeah I think , mean we obviously need a good way to position all the buttons and But I don't think we should spend very much time in that . Do you think the docking station will  is allowed in the budget we have ? industrial designer: It should be possible yes . marketing: industrial designer: So we're just gonna focus on the extras ? project manager: I think so . marketing: Yeah I think maybe we should do some research into what elderly people like to have in a project manager: Yeah .  I don't know if that will rise the cost too much , because industrial designer: Y i  I think we'll have to choose between the docking station or the screen , 'cause project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: it's  marketing: I think since a lot of people indicated that a new remote control is hard to learn , and we're focusing on elderly people here which tend to have a hard time understanding new devices , it might be a good idea to have just a little screen on it , which would explain a button if you press it . marketing: And it wouldn't have to be touchscreen or a very expensive screen , project manager: Based . I think that's a good idea as well , because  elderly people don't mind if it's a titanium cover or just a plastic one . project manager: So I think we nee marketing: I think probably elderly people would be a little bit more careful with their remote controls than youngsters . project manager:  what do we want ? If we want  a with  for example the the telephone for elderly people , we can marketing: I think project manager: target the real elderly people . marketing: I think that would be a If we should do something like that it would be a , I think it would be really good for  for the image of the company . project manager: So that's the marketing: If we're able to really bring an innovative product . Are we industrial designer: Well I don't think they have different television sets  project manager: Okay . You could I think we n it would be a lot easier to project manager: Should marketing: adapt it to different cultures .  what we're going to do for the next meeting is the Industrial Designer will do the components concept , User Interface Designer the user interface concept , and the trend-watching . So just keep in mind the things we've said about the target group ,  requirements , and the trends which are  going on 