marketing: Where are are all the other presentations ? industrial designer: I just put it in the in the shared folder so it should be marketing: The conceptual or industrial designer: yeah I think so . Because I see only my own presentation user interface: industrial designer: No no no , can you go back one ? marketing: yeah . industrial designer:  'cause it has to be PowerPoint pre yeah components design , that's it . industrial designer: 'cause I knew that I didn't have time so I just copy and paste everything into the user interface: marketing: Ah , project manager: Ah . marketing: I can't cut and paste it into the other folder but project manager: You can look at the final report , 'cause I have to record everything we are deciding and such , so I'm trying to write it down between everything else . industrial designer: Sometimes I have these pop-ups or these sounds and there's nothing there , marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: and also with I don't know how to use PowerPoint , so it takes me forever to get something done with it .  we have again three presentations and then we have to decide on what concepts the mobile phone has to  f the remote control has to support . project manager: Yes ? industrial designer: Who wants to start ? marketing: Me first again or project manager: Yeah sure . So  the developments I will address them project manager: marketing: oh yeah well this is the fruit and vegetables looks of fresh bright colours .  Well the first aspect  was twice as important as the second aspect,w which was twice as important as the third aspect . user interface: marketing:  nothing about the buttons but just sponge kind of thing , and and some fruit and colours user interface: Yeah . Yeah you're just the user interface  ? user interface: It's better than than my  drawing . And I used  possibilities from our manufacturing department about current components which will have to be implemented in the design .  I could not drag the pictures into the the slides so s so I don't have examples of how it looks like . But it comes down to what you  what you think we should do with the spongey and the fruity looking  type . If you , the young dynamic people want soft primary colours  , which looks like fruits you know , you can and shapes that are curved and not  solid straight lines anymore . user interface: project manager: industrial designer: There's a lot of options that we have to discuss .  we have a hand dynamo , which we yeah we Dutch refer to it as the kneipgatt . industrial designer:  the kinetic provision of energy which means if you move the thing , if you shake it . project manager: industrial designer: Which will be fun for toddlers right , if they wanna use the project manager: marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: yeah also also in you know countries where there's n isn't much light like in Scandinavia , they wouldn't be y able to use it half of the year you know .  I wasn't able to finish my  personal preferences sheet , but well you know that we will have to go for the double curved 'cause it's daring and different from what we have now . industrial designer: Well we have all kinds of hard  materials like the the hard plastic , the wood and the titanium .  we can use a scroll buttons for the menus , but we already kind of decided to go for the f for the pushbuttons , for the the arrow buttons . industrial designer: Electronics ? Yeah , maybe we wanna decide on what electronics to use the advanced chip I think is easiest to implement  for the production , 'cause they they can print it better . I first  chose for the battery , 'cause yeah I'm traditional and that's the most obvious , easiest choice to go to . user interface: Or combine  both with a with one  project manager:  I think you can only fit one  source of energy on the industrial designer: Yeah maybe we marketing: I guess we can only choose one . But it is more longlasting , that the people don't have to ever buy batteries again . I always chuck my  remote control around , so marketing: Yeah , just playing with it project manager: Yeah . It can be done , you can't harm it , project manager: S yeah it's safe . industrial designer: You don't have to be scared about bouncing it off the g floor and breaking it or whatever . marketing: So double curved is like this , this , this , or industrial designer: No it means curved in two dimensions . So  w single curved ?  let's say would be a b square box , but then with curves on one dimension . So  Yeah  yeah that's one thing  which I'm not sure  of how to implement it  into the remote control . project manager: Well the visual representation is not there with speech industrial designer: Design ? user interface: No okay but it has to be combined with with the menu  for functions and project manager: but you can Yeah . user interface: But do  j do we  do the speech just for the basic options , for the simple buttons ? project manager: Both . Everybody says it so that's what's  yeah  Yeah in the in the last  meeting we  we were yeah putting the the simple and the advanced options separated . And only the the L_C_D_ panel will  light up and then you can only  change the yeah the options . project manager: user interface: you have to  delete this but this is the the the simple  layout . user interface:  display on the upper side with the the menu button and maybe a some sort of cancel button or save button . project manager: You did read the minutes I wrote ? user interface:  project manager: You did read the minutes I wrote ? user interface: What ? A little bit I think but not not everything w industrial designer: I project manager: Oh okay 'cause I pretty much summed up all the buttons there were . user interface: But But this is the the basic  design  for the for the m yeah for the buttons . And  if there are older people they wanted more  yeah more  luxurous so that's an a also an option . Okay so what we have to decide is what kind of components do we use ?  energy source , chip type , case type . industrial designer: Yeah we need the the chip on print to be able to support the the screen and  and f audio function . industrial designer: I'm just thinking , this is not my department , but I I'm not sure what this is gonna cost , marketing: Kinetic . industrial designer: to be able to m project manager:  I didn't get any info on this . industrial designer: That's gonna be difficult huh ? marketing: The cost of making it should be twelve and a half ? project manager: I have total here . project manager: Yeah the interface , maybe can user interface:  it's it's quite difficult because we we haven't got all the options  yeah .  do you have a picture of doubly curved case ? And could you put that in the group folder ? Of the project folder . marketing: If you go to your homepage or something , you should industrial designer: Yeah I'm going there now . marketing: I got my fresh and fyoo fruity  picture  also  over there , so project manager: Ah you didn't draw it yourself . industrial designer: S see this is the the the standard traditional type , where the form  yeah serves the function , you know . industrial designer: where your thumbs would be laying in the instrument and it has to be nice to hold . And user interface: But it has also to it it has also to be  luxurous  for for yeah rich people . industrial designer: Yeah but that's that's the the problem  yeah the dilemma actually , project manager: Distinction . industrial designer: 'cause we wanna appeal to the to the young public with fancy with flashy colours , and with a lot of shape . industrial designer: Yeah , and the and the rubber , it it will look cheap always , user interface: The colour Yeah . Okay but the the colours , you you can make it  make the colours with LEDs  beneath the the buttons . user interface: If you press a button and you can disable the the colour LEDs for for people that don't like it . industrial designer: To customise it and so  kids can make it look more flashy with different kinds of colours user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: and people who want something , you know , different , or more  design , they can go for one colour project manager: Different . marketing: industrial designer: Just give me the thing that it's inside there project manager: Yeah but this this the is for the . industrial designer: A compromise between what ? project manager:  instead of doubly curved we take a single curved . marketing: Yeah so we keep it singly c single curved then ? project manager: Yeah that would be an option . industrial designer: And I I'm I'm thinking  you know  a drawing palette , where you have the shape for your thumb . user interface: Yeah but if you if you make it more curved we we can make more and more options for buttons . user interface: If you have  it have it in your hand , you you you are not only  yeah you don't need one dimension but you can use other dimensions for pressing the the buttons . Something to shoot at your television industrial designer: Yeah or that that is the confirmation button or something , project manager: industrial designer: That would be a nice way to use it but  , yeah , I'm thinking big already , and we need something that well that that you can able to use in one hand I think . marketing: Maybe because the the screen is on top you can have project manager: To switch from buttons to interface  . industrial designer: How about marketing: Well well you have it in your hand so it's a kind of an angle from your eyes to the screen . And the buttons are more , well it's very thick now but industrial designer: Yeah I understand what you mean . marketing: That's  that's industrial designer: How about we do a  a pop-up screen , like the laptop . marketing: Yeah ? That that you can press it and then it comes up ? Or industrial designer: And then if you want project manager:  so you have a the the side view . marketing:  maybe it's too much project manager: make this industrial designer: No  like project manager: . industrial designer: Yeah or preferably even keep the simple buttons here , and then under the screen even you could put more more advanced buttons . user interface: But you you want industrial designer: F for the L_C_D_ menu right ? user interface: okay . industrial designer: So w w project manager: No not all because you need most of them , the arrow buttons . project manager: and you can maybe even drop the menu button because maybe if you flip it open it will auto activate amauto   automatically . Yeah and it says menu and it flips open and then you have the buttons to control it , in combination with your user interface: That's but it's it's not industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: Well yeah the the idea of it was , is that because you close it , you cover the L_C_D_ screen and it won't be vulnerable to scratches or whatever . marketing: An adv an adv and it will be covered in some kind of  thin rubber layer or something like that . industrial designer: That actually will offer some extra protection for the project manager: Okay but then we still have the the the thing of the the the shape . project manager: What kind of industrial designer: Yeah I was thinking , if if you have your hand , it this is your th project manager: Harder . marketing: Yeah the lower part doesn't work I guess , so maybe you should try it over there . project manager: industrial designer: That you , that it would be kind of shape like this , you know . So it's easier to hold in your hand , to y f user interface: But when you are left-handed , that's that's a problem . user interface: But that's that's very expensive  industrial designer: Like like you drew here . user interface: We we could make some some rubber  some rubber  yeah mouse , with which you can change  industrial designer:  project manager: Oh yeah . marketing: we have to make industrial designer: Yeah but we have hardware inside , which is so it has to have some sort of basic shape . marketing: Yeah we we better so choose one industrial designer: And also the screen , you cannot mould it . marketing: But that's the kind of the idea , industrial designer: And then you can marketing: so it lays good in the hand , and then on on the side with with your thumb , industrial designer: You can place the screen here , which can come . marketing: yeah , you can use the button option project manager: So the keywords are primary co colours , spongey ? industrial designer: And but then I w I would marketing: Spongey . marketing: Spongey can be reached by means of industrial designer: Those buttons ? And the simple buttons here , user interface: . And and the and the control thngs in the middle ? The the the arrows ? industrial designer: I  y eah that's what  . industrial designer: or do we wanna make its shape look like a banana or something ? user interface: industrial designer: I dunno . project manager: Yeah that's user interface: marketing:  bananas wierd shape and other fruits also , industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: so it's better to have  some sort of basic print and then a fruit print in some primary  colours . industrial designer: Yeah we could make marketing: I don't know what what colours should the basic print be like ? Like some soft green or something ? project manager: Orange or something . marketing: Or and then user interface: Or blue ? Dark blue or marketing: Oh yeah yeah , dark blue industrial designer: We should use marketing: and then and then very bright ,  a yellow banana , an orange ,  a green apple , stuff like that , user interface: Yeah . user interface: Yeah but the primary colours w we can  create with the with the LEDs on the on the remote control . If you make it  just a yeah bl give it a blue colour , then it's just a neutral colour , project manager: user interface: also for the for the more  yeah for the people . project manager: Y marketing: So that's that's a dark blue basic colour I guess . industrial designer: Like you have on the Samsung , well I don't like to call brands phones , marketing: industrial designer: the you know that 'cause I remember from one of our first meetings that  people lose their  remote controls often . marketing: Yeah ? industrial designer: So it not not only in in the colours of the LEDs , that we want something to keep it visible at all times , or marketing: How do you mean ? project manager: Yeah if you if flashing colour so you can't lose it , basically . project manager: Well I think it's a bit too much but user interface: Maybe a industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: but it's should be more real dark blue , so the contrast with the with the fruit objects is  pretty high . user interface: And which which colour should  should I give the the display ?  project manager: Who ? user interface: Or marketing: the the colour of the background of the display ? user interface: Yeah . marketing: Ah well I don't guess it s has to be a sixty  sixty six five thousand  colour , so yeah too expensive . J industrial designer: As long as you loo use  high contrast between the the background and the foreground colour . user interface: maybe a maybe a white a white backlight ? industrial designer: So that people with  with marketing: White backlight , and dark . Or is it  too expensive ? marketing: But maybe  they have to they have to have some colour right ? project manager: It's difficult . industrial designer: But don't we wanna make the background the the bright colo colours ? So th the total of the thing is very bright ? project manager: Yeah you can industrial designer: Like the pictures I showed you guys . user interface: It's it's not industrial designer: The green ? project manager: Why ? user interface: Yeah . user interface: But the but the buttons have their own LEDs or not ? project manager: They have LEDs but they have a colour . marketing: How do you mean ? project manager:  they they don't determine the colour that much , I think . Yeah I I was think about a red  red LEDs and blue LEDs and project manager: 'Cause you have to print on them you have a background marketing: No that's that's too busy I guess . project manager: So you can't change the colour so marketing: You better bet better better keep the LED and the button itself in the same colour I guess . industrial designer: what we should do I think is is make kind of a see-through plastic button , with  one coloured LED behind it . industrial designer: as the colour the And if you think about easy to use buttons , we have to , well we have to make it the shape so that it's easy to hold f for both hands , marketing: industrial designer: but also that you can reach the buttons with your thumb , if you hold the machine . project manager: Okay with  Don't mean to discourage you but  basically you two are going to work on the smartboard . project manager: Yeah  about user interface: marketing: So wh how should I do that ? project manager: Yeah I don't know . marketing: because you are going to design it on this board right ? project manager: Yeah but maybe you can do the evaluation you don't have to evaluate yet but you can make a procedure which to follow . industrial designer: So we're gonna work here ? On this sketchboard ? project manager: Yeah . user interface: But we have to do it at this moment , after th this meeting ? industrial designer: Alright . user interface: Ah so this is basically the what what we are thinking about ? industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: So if you'll rather draw in paint or something industrial designer: Current colour ? marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: Yeah 'cause I have to  focus on the on the basic look-and-feel design . And you have to think  how we're gonna put the screen in it and those kind of things . industrial designer: So if I'm drawing and you think okay I'm not gonna be able to put a screen in there , you have to correct . industrial designer: so we kind of want the girlish marketing: project manager: That's included . Excuse me ? marketing: Well it's a good thing that the buttons aren't  , well that they are plastic , because then you can light up the light on when when they are usable . industrial designer: How do we   marketing: Erase ? industrial designer: or insert text ? project manager: I dunno . industrial designer:  I thought for the side view , that the w the basic section would be rather  a bit thicker than the middle , where you're holding it with your project manager: Jesus . industrial designer: 'cause your fingers have to fit underneath and user interface: The middle has to be very small so you can have it in your hand . marketing: I don't see a sign that the meeting is over yet but industrial designer: Exactly but the  but the upper side has to be a bit more like that I think . user interface: Yeah the display , industrial designer:  don't you think ? user interface: we yeah we can put a display . industrial designer: So the display we will put in here , the basic  functions in here , where it's most reachable . user interface: industrial designer: What do don't have to draw it exactly do we ? user interface: No it's it's  it's okay . industrial designer: So this is gonna be from the marketing: I is it if if this is from the side industrial designer:  from user interface: From the marketing: woah . marketing: So then it's like this , industrial designer: Yeah ? marketing: or that's not convenient because then you have the screen like this and look like the it's better to have it somewhat like this . Or does it flip all the way ? user interface: Yeah I'm I'm industrial designer: The the idea is that it has to flip up to here . user interface: May maybe it's it's easier to to integrate the the the L_C_D_ screen just into this this bubble . user interface: Because here marketing: It's better to to have this like this I guess , and then flip it like this . user interface: But why why do we need  the flipping  industrial designer: you can adjust the angle to which it flips . industrial designer: Yeah because I think it will feel weird if you would make this smaller and this bigger or something that user interface: marketing: user interface: Yeah . marketing: user interface:  the the shape is okay but yeah ? I don't see the the yeah why why we should use the the flipping  mechanism . It's it's for for for more trendy  marketing: Yeah but maybe Yeah but maybe we we should then user interface: Because we have enough space . marketing: Yeah there the middle Sh sh shouldn't we integrate it ? user interface: Yeah and then h we sh  . user interface: marketing: Okay but the screen is a bit lower because if it falls on the other side , it doesn't fall on the screen . user interface: Yeah , then it's marketing: So there's a layer of rubber on the side . project manager: marketing: So no flipping but just user interface: No flipping or project manager: No flipping ? marketing: no . user interface: you wanted the flipping so industrial designer: Yeah I guess but   most votes count right ? user interface: But if you if you If you drop it it it just breaks . user interface: And it's also for the for the children , it's yeah for people not sixteen years . user interface: But there are more marketing:  they are responsible enough to have a mobile phone , so also to to deal with their  remote  control . user interface: Okay wi industrial designer: Remember that the weird pocketphone thingy which looked like kind of a Gameboy . project manager: I don't see any power cables here so industrial designer: Let's see . But do we want  options on the on the side with the with the buttons ? industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: Yeah I'm just thinking , if we i we wanna make something different project manager: industrial designer: right ? So the with the scroll is is more futuristic than the standard arrow buttons 