It's not as  interesting as it should be because we just  had the meeting , marketing: project manager: but I'll show them . I've put a f  a file in the project management folder , which says exactly  what kind of decisions we should take .  this because of our last model was very functional , but it  people didn't like that , so our new mo model must be very good-looking . project manager: marketing:  such as an  L_C_D_ screen ,  speech  acknowledgement , as we  talked about earlier . marketing: So we have to have  something like that , like we  project manager: L_C_D_ and our  our fronts . industrial designer: Easy to use ? project manager: Well , easy to use  s is a bit  contradictionary with the first  marketing: Yeah ? industrial designer: I think that's your ta user interface: project manager: Functional is not an issue , and then easy to use . industrial designer: you can make a very complicated   remote anyway , so ease of use It's not a very comp complicated device . But the most important thing is that it looks great and people say wow , that's real great  great concept . project manager: user interface: marketing: The group we are targeting is  very pleased with fruit and vegetables . industrial designer: marketing: So we we we might cons consider in front of  in in that sort of  way . project manager: Well the the handy thing about our fronts is that we can follow these trends e ev every year . And the materials ?  I have heard several things , so I  I'll have to change that on the way . project manager: Well maybe it it it is , industrial designer: We should move to  something project manager: but it doesn't look strong . Y Hard plastic i is of course  pretty pretty tough , but it doesn't have a really really tough look .  it's   generally the case that  senior and wealthy people above  forty five years old  like , as you said ,  particularly the traditional materials as such as wood and materials such as that . industrial designer: And then we have  young  and dynamic  people , which is of course our  group , the people we aim at . Soft materials is of course  agai again a bit a contradiction with  our  material choice of what you said , that  it should be hard an and and and and strong looking . And if  also a finding but not very ap applicable here , that sports and gaming devices such as  discmans for jogging and that those kind of devices , gaming devices , should define the characteristics of the device . But  since we don't have a really a sports or gaming device , so we don't really have to consider that . project manager: Sports  , they're  that  are accessible on on your L_C_D_  window  user interface: Soccer fronts . project manager: All the results ? industrial designer: Well I also have  several examples of  styles , marketing: We keep coming back to the fronts . industrial designer: It looks like Well you know  you recognise the shapes , project manager: industrial designer: it's very primary colours ,  bright colours and  round shapes . project manager: industrial designer: You also  see  this device , it's not very round and Fruity of course . industrial designer: So to give you an idea of  marketing: Well it's got a strong look , this . Although it's plastic , it's it's grey to to to give it iron look . Well we have to make a project manager: Well you can make th th th that middle ring can you you can make another colour . I don't think that's very practical , project manager: No , it isn't . industrial designer: Because if we make it grey or or silvery looking , it it does make it a lot more  does make it looking a lot more stronger . industrial designer: 'Cause if you look at this , it it doesn't look very very strong , marketing: Yeah but the industrial designer: becau But this is plastic , and and this too , but marketing: But it doesn't have to look strong . project manager: So , if you ti industrial designer: Well user interface: And it it doesn't have to be strong , also . project manager: Well marketing: Nah yeah the feel project manager: You you Maybe you should have  some some coloured titanium or something . But solar energy is not very practical inside a house , because you don't have a have a lot of  sun . marketing: industrial designer: And  kinetic and and and dynamos are are not very practical , I think , for  for a simple remote , marketing: industrial designer: that's a bit , oh , that's a bit  That's a bit  much . If you use the curved case ,  a curved case , double curved then you can't use titanium . project manager: What do you exactly mean with double curved ? industrial designer: Now  this  to give it a more modern look . project manager: Double curved ? industrial designer: I'll draw it , project manager: It it mean user interface: Yeah . marketing: industrial designer: And it makes  it gives it a more u user friendly shape , than if you have  . No  otherwi  no  difficult scroll things or some  things like that , because it makes more complex and expensive . And ,  as we agreed , we don't use a speaker or a sensor or   speak  speech  controlled device . But we do use an L_C_D_ screen , so we  we do have to consider  of we have to use a more advanced chip , which is more complex and expensive . But It's worth the trouble I think , project manager: Well user interface: The buttons can be made of an  a soft material . project manager: marketing: user interface:  there are new developments in speech recognition  systems ,  and they are already being  used on  coffee machines . user interface:  it's not really speech recognition , it's more  like you can  talk to the chip ,  record the message and record an answer , and then once you  talk to the remote , then  he will a answer with the the prerecorded message that you left . So if I say hi Mike , and you have recorded  hi Mike back , then you will get that . That's a bit  user interface: But i it's just a marketing: But that that makes it cheap . marketing: It's it's just a an extra function , project manager: But it has no functionality for our remote at all . user interface: No marketing: No but user interface: but that's the gadget they want , or the gimmicks . user interface: Well , as I said  earlier I think the  L_C_D_ screen should be  positioned at the lower end of the remote . project manager: user interface:  the buttons for screen width and general settings and  and that kind of stuff marketing: user interface:  we can also do let that kind of functions  be shown in the L_C_D_ screen ,  instead of  extra buttons . project manager: So you put a menu in the L_C_D_ ? user interface: I think young people and yeah w well every user would like that .  the buttons  should be positioned  positioned the same way as they are on a , well , conventional remote , I think . And  I drew an example , industrial designer: user interface: but it did not work quite the well  the way I wanted it to do . user interface:  ? Well I have the I can draw it again , industrial designer: Can you draw it now ? user interface: and I know what I did wrong . marketing: How do you   give input to the menu on the L_C_D_ screen ? user interface:  with the  the up and down and and well buttons and the marketing: Alright . industrial designer: Those are the the cha the channel buttons of course ? user interface: Yeah just  the numbers . industrial designer: And then below is the L_C_D_ screen ? user interface: These these will be bigger in the the real design . user interface: This must be the Okay button used to  interact with the L_C_D_ screen . user interface: And with this you can  , yes , go to through the menus project manager: Yeah . user interface: and that can  the video button should be  an apart button , marketing: You've project manager: Yes . project manager: And what's the menu button ? user interface:  it's marketing: And you you need a you need a speaker . user interface:  ? marketing: For the user interface: This button can also be the Menu button , we use in the menus industrial designer: project manager: But how did How do you get out of the menu then ? Yeah . user interface: Well we we can add another button here , but project manager: Maybe I you could j just do an an exit with Okay . project manager: Yes , well but bec because when you push Menu you get in , industrial designer: Yeah ? Yeah ? project manager: and then you have to push Okay when you get to a choice . That's you you should have  user interface: No no , we we we should  add  a extra Menu button industrial designer: No . project manager: Or you can put in the L_C_D_'s  window an option Get Out . user interface: Ah once you have an extra Menu button , you don't need that that extra option . user interface: Yeah , industrial designer: marketing: Or don't user interface: if we decide to  to implement that , maybe we should . industrial designer: Why would you put it  then , and where is the recording  the microphone ? user interface: Well they that could be anywhere . user interface: Well the speaker and the microphone , I think , are the same  little hole thingy . industrial designer:  but  we could  d do , but it's perhaps more expensive ,  the speaker on the back or something . user interface: Well i  there are a all already being implemented in in coffee machines , so they won't be  very expensive . And oh I think as you can see so , the L_C_D_ screen does look better  at the lower end , or at the bottom . project manager: Yes ? user interface: You can  But I did not like it very much , but marketing: user interface: Well these are quite obvious , very ugly remote . user interface: No , well th marketing: Nei They're n they're not trendy . user interface:  this is for children but th industrial designer: Tho Yeah those marketing: It doesn't look strong . user interface: W but with the colours i it's a bit the way we're going to . industrial designer: But it it must not look too childish of course huh ? project manager: It's it's all too much buttons . I think we should , if it's  possible ,  one with colours , but marketing: Nah th It's too expensive . user interface: I don't know  project manager: Well , that's too expensive I think . project manager: It still has t marketing: You can make the the underside , you can make it more round , where the L_C_D_ is . user interface: Well marketing: I dunno if you know the No Nokia telephone , with  the round  thing at at the bottoms , s something like that . It's just a half round half half circle at And then it falls exactly over the hand , and that's very nice . All the the materials from the case ,  the electric cable that's all your  your side of the story .  now from the user interface , your  package ?  where No well , that's more like the buttons where they have to come . marketing: Materials are the most , most impor project manager: So as you said , fruity is in , well sells good .  so if we  go through them industrial designer: Copy paste  this story into a into a Word document , and then  put the answers after the subjects . industrial designer: Well we have to decide all these things ? user interface: Yeah but all these examples are  of a coffee machine . project manager: Yeah well  Why should I  industrial designer: W we can  override them ? marketing: project manager: Yeah .  I suggest Well what do I suggest actually ? project manager: What what kind of properties should it have ? Well we just listened . user interface: Why don't we  use  titanium or or a hard , yeah , some kind of metal for the  the the whole remote except the front . industrial designer: Yeah but the non-removable elements of the of the remote , so not the front , could be titanium , user interface: Yeah . user interface: And I don't know if you can make steel just any way you want it to . user interface: Well any colour industrial designer: According to my sources ,  it's it's totally possible to make an entire    Titanium is available , and  we can  make  an entire remote out of it , if we want . marketing: So , we're going for a titanium back and a plastic front ? project manager: I've  user interface:  . project manager: So material ,  hard plastic for the front ? industrial designer: Yeah , for the front and then titanium for the back . marketing: But then you have the problem , when you have a titanium back , you can't switch it . industrial designer: Well but marketing: You know ? industrial designer: The titan titanium isn't isn't v very Yeah , i it doesn't  curves . Titanium is very No no no , but you know b Titanium is very basic colour , marketing: Yeah , yeah , yeah . industrial designer: and it doesn't really matter if we have a purple front on it or a orange front . industrial designer: And even if it does  doesn't match , it will  People like  colours that don't match . industrial designer: Excuse me ? marketing: user interface: The electrical cable  does industrial designer: project manager: It's  from  our coffee  industrial designer: Yeah copper i just a ba basic  user interface: No we don't use an electrical cable . industrial designer: Yeah in project manager: industrial designer: Yeah well inside the remote control we use a couple of  project manager: Of course . project manager: Well  marketing: project manager: all the all the inside work of our remote is  standard work . user interface: and I will  project manager: Well you can put that in  into the shared folder , user interface: The shared folder . And what do we ? user interface: project manager: We thing that fruit and bright colours are industrial designer: Yeah the the the front w marketing: I think we can launch a couple of packages . marketing: Yeah but if you if you launch  five different packages like iPod mini user interface: Yeah , right For the  initiative  launch . project manager: We should not give them the m the most lovely front when they buy it for the first time . user interface: Well you can you can give them  s s three or so , industrial designer: The most boring fronts possible . industrial designer: Yeah but you you can have some basic colours , and then we come with the special patterns on them , project manager: Yeah . user interface: Red red , blue and green you give them or something , industrial designer: and and  marketing: Yeah .  this fruit and bright colours , yeah well I think we'll have to in the next  half an hour , we'll have to  s s specify the different  types we want to launch , when we  well introduce our remote . industrial designer:  we still have to make We have still have to make the es the the real basic design . project manager: Well I'll have to , before I get another warning for five minutes , I'm going to get Where is my mouse ?  where is my mouse ? industrial designer: marketing: Lost my mouse . industrial designer: How Yeah yeah , but how do I user interface: But bu we stay we stay here or something ? project manager: Yes well we'll get it to hear that I think . Th they're saying SMARTboard and that's it marketing: You can take the SMARTboard . And take it to our rooms and  project manager:  so you can  you you are going to make a prototype , and y Well that's includes  specifying the buttons etcetera .  well you will go and do something else  on the project user interface: industrial designer: Some Some non functional tasks . project manager: what are you going to do ?  I don't know what product evaluation exactly means , but  you'll get  the specifications . user interface: marketing: industrial designer: No but project manager: How long do we still have ? industrial designer: Well , can we talk about something else ?  project manager: Yeah .  industrial designer: Yeah ? user interface: Will we use  round buttons or square ones for the for the numbers ? industrial designer: Round I think . user interface: And these  these s these buttons  are more  triangle-ish shaped project manager: Why does marketing: Curvy . industrial designer: But now I see the marketing: And this must be  volume I think , project manager: Heh ? marketing: and this programme . project manager: We can't get user interface: Well most of the time  up and down is programme and left and right are volume , I think . user interface: Yeah , it depends , but If you turn up the volume , you always see this thingy go up . industrial designer: Well we  We we j we'll just give them an  marketing: Yeah , that's right .  industrial designer: project manager: So what are we going to do ? I as Project Manager ha don't have a clue .  I think  a logo , our company logo , and the slogan should be or could be project manager: Also the slogan ? On the industrial designer: Yeah , why not ? If there's enough space , you can put  user interface:  I I'd say only the logo . project manager: And well you c On the back , you can put  h At the bottom , you can put the logo with the industrial designer: Right corner , or maybe here in the middle ? user interface:  the text ? project manager: Yeah . user interface:  yeah , at the back ? marketing: But the logo the logo shouldn't be exchangeable , when you get off the front . industrial designer: Yeah it it should be hard on the on the on the board , project manager: Yeah well marketing: Yeah . marketing: Yeah , user interface: Yeah , but then you must  really  yeah push it in or something . industrial designer: I l I like the idea of the of the slogan on the on the on the thing . user interface: industrial designer: But am I the only one , or  user interface: Yeah , on the backside . industrial designer: No not on the front , user interface: On the back Yes , you you can , yeah , push that in , industrial designer: but on the backside . industrial designer: I think it's a nice idea , to make it more recognisable , that the next to the logo you have the slogan . project manager: Yes , slogan from company on the back with logo industrial designer: But we'll  we'll take that  with us into the design . industrial designer: Do you do you see a bit of the of the  of the  titanium ? O on the front ? project manager: Five minutes left . industrial designer:  maybe if we make this this this lower part titanium , user interface: Yes we could industrial designer: the front is the the upper part , and the the bit with the with the L_C_D_ screen . industrial designer: of between we can do but But then you have two parts of front , two fronts that user interface: No , they have two fronts , marketing: No no no no . industrial designer: This enti entire bottom ? marketing: Else you you get problems with the L_C_D_ . user interface: No , you can you can just And then not a straight line but  some sort of wave or something . industrial designer:  it's  marketing: Yeah , project manager: What ? industrial designer: Yeah yeah . industrial designer: That's a bit too much , but project manager: No that's nothing . project manager: Well I think we can , I just It's marketing: It's not relaxing . project manager: Yeah , o user interface:  the fourth one is empty , isn't it ? marketing: project manager: Oh user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: marketing: You have to empty one huh ? project manager: Oh , we have a one . marketing: industrial designer: What are you doing chief ? project manager: So , you can  draw a Yeah . user interface: Yeah I think we have to wait ? industrial designer: Yeah project manager: Well I'll get a I'll get the message . marketing: No user interface: industrial designer: But I don't  Do we have to stay here , marketing: project manager: No , I think  industrial designer: or I think we have to return first . Well we have  b you have to have a bit of humour in the in the discussions too , marketing: You just have to push harder . industrial designer: project manager: We know you'll you'll you'll hate it but industrial designer: But  th youth doesn't care about functio functionality , so marketing: No . project manager: Well , that's not bad , is it ? industrial designer: Well they  marketing: No . project manager: So is it user interface: Yes , but you you get really close to the screen with your hand , industrial designer: user interface: and I don't think that's industrial designer: marketing:  . user interface: industrial designer: Where's the good old chalk board with the the green board with the , how do you call it , chalk , yeah . industrial designer: Maybe if i if that thing is recalibrated , we can draw a thing quick , and then before it  goes off again . Alright now we know what to do , so user interface: We'll stay here ? project manager:  marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: Maybe w maybe we maybe w m Can we get email here ? project manager: No , get away 