user interface: project manager: who's gonna give the prototype presentation ? You two guys ? Okay . The logo is  is  is pretty  obvious to see on the on the remote control , user interface: industrial designer: but it is necessary when you want to build your  company f to a level higher . And then we had  just  two buttons , we place them in the middle ,  the menu , and for the teletext project manager: Oh no , the the the mute button misses now . user interface: I thought that was th marketing: Alright , I project manager: Do y do you user interface: Oh , the mute button . project manager: did we want to have a m mute button ? industrial designer: But  that marketing: Yeah . marketing: Alright , and  you gotta point out which is the volume   button and which is the programme button . industrial designer: Yes ,  user interface: Well , yeah mo  mo industrial designer: we've disc user interface: Yeah , well most of them are right-handed . industrial designer: Most of the users marketing: Yeah , but you you gotta make it clear on the on user interface: Yeah well , I don't have time in  anymore on the industrial designer: Yes , y there there will be a p a little a little P_ on that and a little  yeah . marketing: industrial designer: user interface: marketing: industrial designer: project manager: there are different ways for remote controls to  do  like marketing: project manager:  d I call it teens and twenties . project manager: Yeah , but do we have do we need extra buttons , user interface:  project manager: for example some  some have to user interface:  I think so . marketing: I think industrial designer: Yes , yes , you have you have a lot of standard buttons that has to be  on it ,  th with the one and a double   marketing: Yeah , I think you should add user interface: Zero ? marketing: A cross , or whatever . project manager: Yeah , but you don't you don't actually need them , user interface: May maybe here ? industrial designer: yes . project manager: becau b l a lot of remote controls work that y when y that you when you fir you push the one first , then you have a couple of seconds user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: Yes , you have televisions , then you have to , you know , you have to  press marketing: I do know so . user interface: Is it depending on television ? project manager: Nah , I don't think so really , marketing: Yeah . project manager: because you have a I know some remote controls that don't have these buttons , but you still can , know , obviously you can still select the twenty  a number in the twenty or in the ten . industrial designer: Yes , but but a lot  marketing: Yes , but   no  remote control nowadays are  they come with the television . project manager: No , I think  I really think it's n marketing: But project manager: because you can when when you put a button on it with like one and  then a dash , it's the same thing as when you just push the one , marketing: Yeah . project manager: because it i it first gives you the functionality of that that  separate button you also had to  apply . industrial designer: Yes , but marketing: Yeah , well but su If industrial designer: some televisions don't accept  that that project manager: Yeah , because that's i it's for television . I in th in the first place it gives a signal which it would also send when you put a separate button on it . project manager: The one with dash , that signal gi and when y whe when you don't push another button on the remote control within five seconds , then the remote control gives a signal for channel one . marketing: No , it it it works  if you haven't got  a special button for it ,  if you push a one , then on your television there will appear a one and a a line , which is an empty space . project manager: Yeah , but it's exact the same that w would appear when you put a separate button push a separate button . industrial designer: Yes , but some some old televisions  you have to  click on  a special button ,  then you go to a a next level , you can push two buttons . project manager: I think it's exact the same thing when y industrial designer: You want Yes , but some television don't support it . project manager: No , but then they would a would also support that button , because it's the same thing . user interface: But the ex project manager: Listen , with that that's that special but button you're talking about , eh ? That's just a signal to recei ju they send a t signal to the v tv T_V_ that they have to put a one in on your screen and a dash , which you can pu so you can  still put another number on it . When you don't have that separate button , and you push y one , it's exactly the same thing . Do y you the remote control gives that same signal as it would give when you only had industrial designer: No , marketing: No , s some some televisions need the input first  and and you c industrial designer: a remote can project manager: Yeah . That's the same thing as the button with the one and it marketing: No , that's not true . industrial designer: No , user interface: You  you can wai when you push the one you can show on the telly a one and just a dash , and then wait  two  seconds or something industrial designer: but  marketing:  project manager: And it's the same thing what happens and a g remote control gives another signal after five seconds that is just one . Yeah , but I m  but it's I I know for sure that some televisions that w th th the remote control supplied , only ha has the c these buttons with a one and a dash and a two and a dash , but when you use a bu a n remote control that doesn't sport these buttons , it still works . industrial designer: Yeah , it project manager: But okay , we we'll impl marketing: No , definitely not . marketing: user interface: I don't know  I don't know if if it's it's necessary . project manager: Yeah but marketing: you can access that  via zero , and then minus , I guess . What I said about  the remote control sending another signal , that that might not be true , marketing: Yeah . project manager: but I still think i it it all T_V_s in some ways support it , I don't know . I think it's more c is m maybe we don't  we both don't really understand how it i how it really works , industrial designer: No , no . project manager: but I think there's more to in than wha than what you just said . project manager: I do think that  m T_V_s support mur multiple kind of remote controls . M industrial designer: some N some televisions when when you want to go further than  ten project manager: Th won't work wi with  industrial designer: No , you have to you have to  give the television  two or more signals . industrial designer: When you make the technology that that it will  give more signals , it could work , but Just a basic idea of of of the most  most y most common  and simple  operations on the remote . It's here on the user interface: marketing: user interface: Well it industrial designer: user interface: yeah ,  there's nothing I think it's pretty basic , industrial designer: We came  user interface: the the there's no fu industrial designer: Yes . user interface: there's one there's one button , marketing: No nothing really trendy about it . user interface: that's wha there's there's there's one function and that's n the one button when you want to find it . industrial designer: But maybe we can maybe we can make the docking station   a bit standard for for  the other products we sell , marketing: The button . So maybe we can  use the docking station , for example ,  M_P_ three players or or  marketing: Yep . industrial designer: Yes , but when you put that same volt voltages on it , you can put  when the when the when  o the the the lowest part of it , when it's o the same as the other products , you can put it all on the same  marketing: Yeah , of course . industrial designer: Yes , but we can make marketing: The technology and the voltage can be the same . marketing: Yeah , that's true , but  industrial designer: When when the the recharger has a has a bit what points out , we can place all on top of it . Just have to be big enough for the biggest marketing: Yes , but  I I g Shouldn't it fall then ? It isn't going to fall down ? That's a bit  industrial designer: No , when you make it large enough no it it will not . marketing: yeah , I think industrial designer: But then it's a little bit marketing: No , but if if like this , I'll I'll point it out , if you got  a a a base a base like this , industrial designer: But it's just an idea . If you got a base which is  as big as this industrial designer: But it's flat it's flat as as this , so we can p make all the products as flat as this . marketing: Yeah sure , but if you got if you got a tiny player , it can industrial designer: Yes , but when you make   a bit of big user interface: But it's it's backwards . project manager: But user interface: marketing: you could make like a hole in it , you know , of  in in the industrial designer: Yes , little holer littler  , little products go deeper in it . project manager: Well let's ha let's talk about the docking station later , because  maybe we have we have to  consider the docking station anyway , because we have some  cost issues still to come . industrial designer: the f the look and feel would be great on this  remote control , because  you always  will  pick up the remote control in the in the smallest  area . industrial designer: Then your  left thumb of  your right thumb is  near the programme  button , which is the most common used  function , and all the other buttons are available for your  thumb . That's it ? industrial designer: Yes ,  on the side  there will be a strip of rubber , and in the middle  there is  a hard  a hard material , a bit hard plastic with a light  behind it . industrial designer: Yes , we can make also n neon lights on it , or or the buttons that can make  light on it . user interface: lights ? industrial designer: But , it will also   use batteries , marketing: Yeah , why not ? industrial designer: and do we want to marketing: Of course . industrial designer: The all the aspects of the interface buttons were  project manager: Okay , but in the oh yeah , the colour , because we're gonna use  one colour for the the plastic enclosure and one colour for the rubber , isn't it ? Then we're gonna do the buttons in the i are we're gonna have rubber buttons . project manager: And they're be a they'll be in the same colour as the rubber on the side . And I think we should use a a darker colour for the  plastic , and maybe some more m brighter and flashy stuff industrial designer: Yes , maybe we can use on the on the lights on the side we can use   multiple  lights , marketing: Yes . project manager: but may I dunno if that's important , but we'll talk about that later . project manager: the next p y you gonna give a presentation too ?  , I have to see the agenda . marketing: We gotta do that on the right the most right-most screen , because the leftmost project manager: Evaluation criteria . Right , the remote is not ugly , a bit weird sentence , but the positive things has to be on the left , so I said not ugly instead of ugly . user interface: marketing: what would you say , we we gotta give points to  to all of these to evaluate  that design , and please forget the drawing skills of these guys . How do you feel ? project manager: Yeah , I think four maybe would be appropriate , because it's Yeah , maybe it really depends on taste . project manager: so if maybe a lot of people find it really ugly , you know , o other people find it really cool . industrial designer: I think I think the the fronts will give it a more    less uglier  side , because you can  make it in your own marketing: How do you guys feel ? The different designs . project manager: Yeah , but we d we didn't we're we're not planning to use fronts , I believe . marketing: And that's still   , yeah , is is  is a little personal touch , I guess . project manager: Okay , but Oh , maybe we should do three or something that w you know , our marketing: What ? Yeah , wha wha what would you  guys  think ? Personally . marketing: I was I was thinking about three , so I guess project manager: I was thinking about four , so I think three is  user interface: Okay , three . marketing: Antek , you agree ? user interface: Okay yeah , I'll I'll agree . user interface: I'm the I'm the usability , so marketing: I totally agree . project manager: But user interface: Well project manager: Well maybe a two , because of the menu button or something . project manager: And telete industrial designer: Also , the the the buttons of the one , the two , the the digits , project manager: Yeah , we don't know if the  they're necessary . industrial designer: o they're used   marketing: the the yeah , m well , you d you've got a point . project manager: Came a long way , but not we didn't not  marketing: Two or three ? user interface:  two . industrial designer: But you can't make a remote control without them , marketing: Two ? Antek . user interface: Because we got industrial designer: because marketing: Nay that that that's true , that's true . project manager: No , w w it can also always be more simplistic , but two is marketing: So we put it on a two ? project manager: yeah . industrial designer: project manager: Yeah yeah , y i it's hard to say from this picture . project manager: But I do think it's more user interface: I will I will make it a three , because  yeah . project manager: So so I think maybe it has to score higher  on this than on the user interface: Yeah . marketing: I was planning to give it a two ,  where I give the not ugly  project manager: A th a three . project manager: Yeah , but we  you mean the rubber stuff ? marketing: Yeah , and the light . user interface: But project manager: And I don't u also it's also really not innovative , industrial designer: Lights lights are marketing: Well , I g project manager: it's more marketing: It's not seven ? project manager: No , six . industrial designer: Because we've tried to make it a little bit innovative , user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: but it but it project manager:  it's  depends on the on the maybe marketing: How ? industrial designer: With the lights it it's it's kind of future user interface: project manager: No , I think I think actually it's a seven maybe , but there's nothing innovative about it .  , I agree , industrial designer: But still you can retrieve it when it's when it's gone , with the with marketing: m but user interface: Innovative in generally or just f original for marketing: I'll Yeah , you you didn't draw the docking station . project manager: N no no , marketing: Yeah , it it's I think I think with its project manager: t . user interface: A docking station is innova project manager: Yeah ,  the dock station , but but  , I think the the docking station , it's gonna be a kind of a problem . project manager: But marketing:  that that's n project manager: Well , let's leave it open for  for us later to see what , because we have to reevaluate anyway . project manager: No ? marketing: No  , well , the agenda says evaluate now , so I think we project manager: Okay , for now it's a six or a seven  , sev marketing: It's it's a six . project manager: because industrial designer: But the retrieval or the marketing: That m f project manager: Yeah , but I don't I don't know if it's very inno yeah . project manager: Yeah , v industrial designer: Yes , how would you innovate a remote control more ? project manager: Yeah , more through  like function T_V_ functionalities and industrial designer: To put it on your head . industrial designer: marketing: project manager: You have must be innovative technology for remote controls , but more in how you control stuff , not in how you find your marketing: Yeah sure , but project manager: yeah . Yeah , it's marketing: But I d I definitely don't think it's a five , project manager: that's that's think about it la later on marketing: but project manager: and  marketing: Remote control is easy to use . project manager: Remote control will be bought by marketing: It will be bought by people under the age of forty . project manager: Well industrial designer: In in and comparing with  people of th of the age above ? marketing: No no no . marketing: Antek ? industrial designer: Yes , two , but only in c when you compare it with with elderly . marketing: W w industrial designer: When it succeeds ,  it can get a two , mu marketing: Right , the rem The remote control has recognisable corporate image , colour , logo or slogan . marketing: Can we see the slogan ? project manager: Yeah , you can put that on the side if if we would like to . industrial designer: Yes ,  encrypted  with project manager: Yeah , and I will I th still think it's gonna be a two or a three . Because of the slogan project manager: And  marketing: Remote control's got a basic design intended  for novice users . marketing: Alright , we project manager: Yeah , and that's mostly the inno marketing: yeah . So project manager: Because I I still think that the most important part of this meeting still has marketing: We did a pretty nice job until now . project manager: I'm gonna open the spreadsheet and we're gonna work this out together , because I didn't really fin  I have a . project manager: we we  indicate the amount of components of the specif specific component , how much we need of them .  , I think we should know how many simple chips , regular chips industrial designer:  it's it's one one chip , but but you have to choose one from it . But industrial designer: The simple chip is e enough I I think , but with the lights with the lights and the retrieval , it can be  marketing: I don't know project manager: Where did we find this information ? Was it marketing: I haven't got an idea on on which we need to use , really . project manager: I think it was  your job in the first  meet  , f your first presentation to make this clear , but then you had some t time problems . industrial designer: The the email I got said  simple chip , but when we put in the speaker and the retriever  device , it will  cost a a bit more , like I think the advanced chip maybe . Did it point out what to use them for ? industrial designer: Bec No , the they didn't know about a retriever or a speaker  in it . When we don't when we leave the  retriever and such aside , what industrial designer: Then it's a simple chip . industrial designer: Yes , I I I s I marketing: Alright , well , point out the advanced chip for now , I guess . project manager: Yeah , I don't know about the special colour , but I think w  industrial designer: Otherwise , you get  a standard  plastic colour . user interface: I don't marketing: I don't know if it's very special . industrial designer: St project manager: I think you have to indicate the amount of push-buttons we want to use , isn't it ? user interface: Whoa , it's a little project manager: Well that's bit of a problem , industrial designer: Yes . project manager: because I re but I really don't understand that , because I can imagine a remote control with far more push-buttons , and it wouldn't be possible according to this  sheet . industrial designer: No , it's only  when you use push-buttons , it will cost that much . Yeah , it wouldn't marketing: The the the yellow row is the amount of project manager: Fill in the number of components you plan to use in the and the total cost I don't know . user interface: Is that one or is that nine buttons ? industrial designer: You can have  project manager: And I count them like this . project manager: And plus these two , f  plus the mute button , and it's will be  eighteen . Y I do I don't get the point , because it's would be s relatively so expensive , just these m small buttons . user interface: Is it cents , the the the fifty cents a button ? marketing: Fifty cents for one single stupid button . industrial designer: So , whe when you so then it project manager: Well , okay , well well let's make it just one . industrial designer: It's eighty percent of the price of the of the amount of project manager: Here , now it's now it's already s marketing: Yeah , exactly . project manager: shall we just give our own interpretation to , user interface: project manager: because else we would really have a problem . It would be impossible to make it marketing: I can't user interface: It's way marketing: I I I couldn't understand it if it was fifty cents per   per button . industrial designer: When you have the same amount of button , you have to put in wi in your carton . industrial designer: And then throw it marketing: Yeah , yeah , industrial designer: project manager: This is the most simple user interface: No , no no . industrial designer: But whe project manager: industrial designer: I've seen one  one remote control with only the pu yeah , only with  page up , page down and volume , project manager: marketing: No , really . user interface: Yeah ,  industrial designer: but but marketing: Yeah , but I d I wouldn't want to own that . industrial designer: but but it isn't fo Yes , it's for it's li  it's just for a little user interface: Yeah , that's no option , that's no option .  , I think we should mark the special form thing , because it this will be some special forms incorporated in these big buttons , I guess . user interface: A special colour , why a special colour ? project manager: Because the buttons will be  d will be matching colour between the buttons and the rubber surroundings . user interface: But wha what s what special ? project manager: I think that's the what they mean by a special colour . industrial designer: Otherwise it would be the marketing: I don't think the special form is really true . project manager: I think all the special colour things have to be marked over here , because that's what we were planning to do , making it industrial designer: Special form also , it says . project manager: Yeah , special material r also , marketing: Is it ? project manager: because i has rubber . project manager: 'Kay , but the problem now is that the There's no such thing as a docking station in this list , but we can all imagine that it would be impossible to make a docking station for thirty cents . And and but we don't have to tell it , but what we can say of can  almost make it impossible to buy a remote control without the docking station . industrial designer: user interface: project manager: It  but it then the docking station isn't relevant for this project anymore , but we can marketing: No . project manager: but then you still have to use we have to find out what chip we u need . project manager: Yeah , I think that's what what what they  mean industrial designer: But for two Euros and thirty cents , we  we don't get a docking station . project manager: But can we find out  about  this chips ? Because when we don't need a d a docking station , then probably we also have only we also need a simple chip . Oh , n  oh , still industrial designer: For project manager: oh , it's gonna get more expensive with . marketing:  i i if you if it would cost two Euros , that had a total a total thing , it would be nice too ,   we're not gonna add  a trip to Hawaii to it . user interface: But what what can we do project manager: Yeah , or we can ki do the kinetic cells . user interface: But  what can we do with the simple chip and what's difference with a regular chip and a advanced chip ? project manager: Yeah that's what then what he has to find out . Maybe you can  find it in your email right now , then we know then we exactly know what it will cost us . user interface: Regular chip and because we don't have  special functions to use  in advanced chip , for example . project manager: Yeah , bu bu but when we yeah , but when we skip when we  when we don't use the do we're not gonna make the docking station , then we still yeah , we need something else maybe to make it kind of special , marketing: I like the hand dynamo part . marketing:  project manager: Yeah , okay , you can also do that , but maybe marketing: Wi wi without recharge project manager: It still is a special remote control cons  you know , wi its form is special and material . marketing: Yeah , but but we can make a docking station for two Euros  if you don't put the recharge function in it . project manager: Yeah , but for two Euros , then we have still maybe we have to use the advanced chip , marketing: Of course it has a shape , but i i project manager: then two Euros isn't even possible . marketing: Why should that not be possible ? project manager: Yeah , then because then we'd thirty cents left . marketing: No , for for the  for the docking station if you do if you choose the simple chip . project manager: Yeah , but yeah , I don't know , because maybe d  yeah , we have to find out with the simple chip . If we do i do we need an advanced chip , or is it okay f project manager: Yeah , and w and and we  need f marketing: Yes . industrial designer: It isn't in my information , I  I I've got a schematic view of the remote control , but nothing about  advanced chips or project manager: You can look at it for s presentation . industrial designer:  I've got here in  user interface: No no , they were  mine , yeah . industrial designer: But that was my second project manager: Yeah , it was your second marketing: It's already open . industrial designer:  project manager: this is n this is not this n user interface: Was it working design or components design ? marketing: Sorry . project manager: You know that a push-button requires a simple chip , but a scroll-wheel , it it me requires industrial designer: Ah , okay . project manager: it s  only states that a scroll-wheel requires a regular chip , and that a display requires an advanced chip . project manager: And what's the sample sensor slash sample speaker ? industrial designer: Maybe you can say against the remote  page  f  page up , page down . user interface: Yeah , lights , yeah , there's no marketing: Well , there're three , I guess . user interface: Can we do it wi within two two Euro ? marketing: I think we can make a docking station . project manager: Okay , but what we have to think about now is that is is it still a special remote control ? But  it isn't it hasn't got any innovative technology , we aren't gonna apply any  innovated innovative te technology anyway , I think . I don't I don't see any possibility to do so , because it would wouldn't fit our defi design philosophy . Instead of the rechargeable the rechargeable thing was something to  know , so y so people wouldn't have to worry about their batteries anymore . marketing: M bu project manager: Maybe we if we put the kinetic thing in it industrial designer: But but sometimes you put a project manager: Yeah , you leave the p yeah , I know , but still I they will think about that .  if you u industrial designer: Kinetics aren't  nowadays only used in watches and that's because you're always walking . project manager: The  it's made for s people well , the they don't if it was   r useless technology , they wouldn't put it  as a possibility . project manager: And i it it th th the the target marketing: Or the hand dynamo dynamo project manager: the target  group are people who zap regularly and throw with their remote control as a matter of speaking . project manager: Because I think it when when there w was a remote control where it was useful to have a kinetic   power source , then it would be this one . Because it's one it gets thrown around thrown around a lot and it gets used a lot Hey that maybe that's cool that's a cool thing about it , you know . marketing: Yeah , but but if we ca project manager: I've never seen it before in a remote control . project manager: Yeah , we can als or  also m we we can make one user interface: Wow , w why no li marketing: We can make a docking station for two thirty . project manager: we can still make user interface: Look at now , we got two industrial designer: Fo for a docking station . Ca can't we make a docking station of that ? marketing: We can make a docking station . project manager: Yeah , but be serious , then  the docking station will be a fifth of the price of the remote control . industrial designer: Wi with a button to user interface: Well , we we  industrial designer: wi with a button to retrieve it , so it will beep . project manager: Yeah , but we  we don't inc we haven't looked at the these costs of the speaker and other stuff . industrial designer: Look at the case , project manager: Oh , because we industrial designer: the case the case of of  of  user interface: Yeah , then we don't have any innovation things .  maybe it with the kinetic thing , I think we could do  do a compromise  with the kim kinetic thing . user interface: marketing: No , sta yeah  industrial designer: No , then we have to sell it for thirty Euros . project manager: Yeah , I don my suggestion is to just forget about the whole docking station thing and make it  like a   I I I I still fee I also feel this concept of making it kinetic , because of the you know , it g it gives something dynamic to the remote control . industrial designer: user interface: project manager: Yeah , and it is also not a good it's not you have to really do it only kinetic , you don't want it to think about batteries anymore . marketing: And I think only industrial designer: Yes , but when it's then when it marketing: Yeah , but only kinetic , then you gotta project manager: No no . industrial designer: then you have to shake it  and all when it's when it's empty . user interface: industrial designer: project manager: When you use it your remote like once a day , or maybe even less i i it industrial designer: You asked for three d No , that's n that's not true . Becau be but a remote control gets why do they state that this technology can be used if it industrial designer: Yes , solar cells are also stated . project manager: Yeah , m but a w   n  a calculator also works on r on solar cells . industrial designer: Why don't we use solar cells then ? project manager: Because I think the d whole dynamic part , do you know , appeals to me qui  thinking of our design philosophy , you know , with the rubber parts and  sturdiness of the thing , and y when you move it around a lot , then people find the idea funny that when I move my remote control around and industrial designer: That's true . I guess something like that , where you have to move it around very frequently , is demotivating . project manager: Okay , then we d Okay , well y we don't have to do it , but what that would just have a lack of key features , you know . You have to make people buy it and  We can really can do the docking thing ,  it's not yeah ,  we can do it , but it's would be a easy way out . project manager: Okay , but we have to grou to agree upon something , industrial designer: The c The case the case alone is is is  project manager: because  we only have a minute left or so . Okay , w b we can s we can leave it on be well then then th it's this is then then our concept is ready . user interface: It w it won't tell , but industrial designer: But now marketing: No , this not gonna sell . marketing: We come back tomorrow , okay ? project manager: No no  there's still there's still someth concept and something special left . project manager:  we're gonna it's gonna excel in in on in the the range in the field of design and and  looks and feel . Yeah , and I would li I would have liked a kinetic part as well , to give it some just to give it some extra special feature , and  I know it will work , but  it's it's an They're they're not putting technologies on this , but if it if it was impossible to to make it happen . industrial designer: Why not a hand dynamo then ? user interface: project manager: Okay , well we leave it like this . project manager: Okay , project e  industrial designer: Is this it ? project manager: well , we were gonna what look take a look at the last sheet . I don't see why , but industrial designer: Where's the champagne ? marketing: I think we gotta fill out another questionnaire , to be honest . user interface: Can we can't we do it here ? marketing: I don't think so 