project manager: If you Don't know if you al already had a look or not ? user interface: No n I I already did it . At the moment we have fifteen buttons , one L_C_D_ screen , one advanced chip-on-print . What's the first thing we should drop ? The special colour of the buttons ? user interface: No that's that's for the trendy  feel and look . project manager: Should we switch to a hand dynamo ? user interface: project manager:  that's the still the same idea as the kinetic energy because you have to use it and do things . project manager:  Do we keep the shape doubly curved or g do we go for single curved ? industrial designer: Well I guess i we'll have to go for single curve then .  marketing: But we can keep it single curved with  top view still curved , but from the side it's it's flat , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager:  another option I saw was to drop the buttons one through nine , so you can't directly access a channel , but instead use only the up and down arrows . project manager:  then we have left user interface: But we don't have any basic options any more . industrial designer: And  'cause then they don't have to n They don't need special colour as well . industrial designer: And then you can make an overview of channels in the screen , and select a channel , click project manager: Yeah , some more menu options . user interface: Yeah we c could We only need the the the the the menu arrow arrow button  thing . I was Because marketing: project manager: Yeah , scroll-wheel , push-button  industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: If you go to our  view , like you if you are in the sound system there ,  and you wanna adjust the treble for instance , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: y y you wanna see a bar on which you can adjust it from zero to ten for example . industrial designer: But you want a sound preview of how it's gonna sound , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: right ? So you wanna click on it , activate it , whe and when you move it , hear the difference of the treble coming out or going into the sound . marketing: So that's kind of on your mouse and then you can click it , adjust it , click again and then you're out of it . marketing: But you still But you then still need to have Well you can use the scroll-wheel as well for  maybe for the channels . user interface: So you do one inte You can do one integrated scroll-wheel push-button . user interface: But but th the cost of one integrated button is far more than a few extra push-buttons . project manager: So user interface: So we have to to make it s  more  It has to be project manager: You could also drop j three more of these , without losing much functionality . Wh wh what what what is the what is the  sample sensor sample speaker ? project manager: Oh , that's for the speech . project manager: S s Drop speech recognition ? industrial designer: No but project manager: Yeah that's possible . user interface: We we d industrial designer: Yeah it's it's expensive , but  we never considered the possibilities of  speech recognition . industrial designer: I marketing: No , it can be disturbed by by noise and industrial designer: No . project manager: marketing: There are more people who like speech recognition than an L_C_D_ screen . Because if you d lose the L_C_D_ screen , we need a lot of marketing: But if it But it it it's a it's a both a hypers user interface: We lose our whole concept . project manager: Okay industrial designer: We  we we haven't really integrated this the speech into the system , project manager: so we drop the speech . marketing: But y y project manager: Yeah if you lose the the Back , the Okay button  v let's say we only have the four arrows , and the Menu button . project manager: Then you're marketing: And then and then use  project manager: Oh and the power button we have also . user interface: If we do  two integrated scroll-wheel push-buttons , we can drop all the the push-buttons . To This together is more expensive than Oof , it's almost the same as t keeping this . user interface: It's the marketing: For example if you have f f four buttons , channel up and down ,  volume left right project manager: Volume . And then if the moment you use the scroll-wheel , the the the menu gets activated , and then you can scroll , choose an option , click on it , it goes into an feature . Or or under each option , you set a you set an a screen thing what says back , and you select that one , click again , and you go one step back . user interface: marketing: So that then you need five buttons , and one integrated scroll-wheel push-button . industrial designer: Which That's even marketing: But I see that's project manager: Yeah that's one Euro more expensive . marketing: Because which buttons do we have now ? Those five which I mentioned , and then menu , and then project manager: Menu , power .  industrial designer: Yeah , if you if you go to eight marketing: Which more ? industrial designer: I don't know how to project manager: Yeah . project manager: Yeah , and even if we drop three buttons from here , we still have to make some adjustments around here . project manager: industrial designer: Yeah , we need the chip for the for the L_C_ display . marketing: Instead of r project manager: Because then also it's good in the market with the forty five plus  people . project manager: Yeah ? marketing: No but I I project manager: Yeah okay  user interface: That's an option . marketing: And since it's not kinetic , it doesn't have to flip around that much ? project manager:  that's easy because plastic is free . project manager: Yeah ? user interface: Yeah th th it's it's  marketing: Yeah we can't drop them . industrial designer: Yeah  marketing: Do we really need that advanced chip for an L_C_D_ display ? industrial designer: You   Yeah . So the other option would be to go for the the sample speaker , and Which can use a regular chip , wh which is six Euros in total . industrial designer:  can't we f  fit all the buttons in an intreg integrated scroll push-button ? 'Cause that will save us one and a half Euro already . And then if w marketing: And then integrated s Yeah but that would make it not so easy to use . project manager: No y you would rec marketing:  it's not that important , easy to use , but project manager: Then you have industrial designer: Th then we have to scroll through a lot of menus to be able to get where you want , huh ? project manager: Then you still need two additional buttons I believe . user interface: But the integrated  button ? How many func functions can it  have ? project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: You can go into you in you main menu , marketing: You you press it for like three seconds . You see ? industrial designer: We'll we'll be on marketing: But we still have thirteen left . project manager: Ah , I don't think I can s  persuade the management to say , this is better for the market so you sell more than marketing: user interface: Okay . Wh what we could do is  drop the the special colour , and  do the special colour for the buttons . industrial designer: project manager: marketing: Yeah but  what is meant by special colour ? project manager: I just m I don't I think user interface: Just something else than than black or white I think . user interface: The display industrial designer: Well , you only have to power it up when you wanna use it . user interface: The But if you have to power the for ten minutes , then the marketing: Yeah . project manager: No I don't think the current status of  chips are pretty  energy conserving , no . project manager: Yeah hand dynamo ? Do you want an extra button ? marketing: Or or do we Or do we do uncurved and flat ? Instead of project manager: user interface: No no it has to be curved . That's the most import project manager: Yep ? Instead of an additional power button ? user interface: Yeah or spe special form ? marketing: Yeah . marketing: Let's do it like this , because it does not lose our identity of the product as we project manager: Yeah ? Okay .  industrial designer: project manager: Did I save it ? industrial designer: It's silly 'cause we we should have had this meeting before we start drawing . marketing: Yeah what's the next  phase ? project manager: Yeah , this the last phase of course , so marketing:  the agenda . user interface: marketing: project manager: Yeah it was more important , so I just marketing: Yeah . True or false , and then on a scale of seven points , a scale , as we all know it . project manager: user interface: marketing:  Well the criteria are based on the user requirements ,  the trends from the marketing research , and the marketing strategy of the company itself . Because the operating behaviour of the young user was also defined in colour and shape and the use of L_C_D_ , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: right ? project manager: of course we dropped a little bit of those  marketing: Yeah the us u It it industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: it's it's mainly con mainly concentrating on a lot of functions , in this question . marketing: So do you think industrial designer: Well , we have extended menus , on the on the L_C_D_ screen . marketing: So on a scale from one to seven , what do you think ? user interface: Two or three . If you don't want to use them , you don't s you s just scroll over them . marketing: Well yeah the button's integrated , huh ? user interface: I think we are industrial designer: Yeah . You j you just push it in for user interface: It's in Oh yeah it was integrateds . marketing: Yeah just just push it in for th for three seconds or something , and then project manager: Yeah . marketing: Yeah  on the other  on one side I would say yes , and the other side I would say no . project manager: It shows the most used functions and they are relevant , but user interface: Can you  change channels directly with with just one button ? marketing: Yeah . user interface: No , you have to scroll through the menu , before marketing: With the scroll butt Yeah and then say channel . So it's it's not industrial designer: Well  we should b build it so that if you don't kind of push into the menu or something , if When it's on , yeah , it's turned on , project manager: You say you double click on the marketing:  ? industrial designer: It automatically has the the programme and the volume function , marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: but as soon as you click it you go into the menu or some Of you marketing: Yeah . marketing: But but how do you change from volume to channel ? project manager: industrial designer: No because it has four arrows , right ? project manager: No , not anymore . marketing: So you you have to double-click , for ,  volume , project manager: To get into menu . marketing: So that's user interface: industrial designer: marketing: Yeah but that that's not a question . marketing: You have to search for them in in the in the s in the screen , in the menu .  the the remote control makes use of technolog technological innovation like L_C_D_ screen and speech recognition . marketing: I think L_C_D_'s more useful than speech project manager: Yeah definitely . Okay , it has a fancy look and feel by using fruit and vegetable prints , primary colours and sponge-like material . project manager: marketing: But the look and feel project manager: You still have rubber d Or no . Because it's basically an old one ,  with little curve on the side , and in a different colour . industrial designer:  the sponge-like and the three D_ shape , that would give it something young and fresh . user interface: It's the white part  industrial designer: Yeah but it be because  we couldn't hardly draw on the b s on the lower half of the screen , we could not make it big enough to actually draw in the project manager: . project manager: So user interface: We have a we have a industrial designer: So  I wanted to put digits on the buttons as well . industrial designer: And even the shape we have now  simulates kind of an R_ and the reversed R_ , user interface: industrial designer: doesn't it ? marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: The only e the only thing easy about it is that you don't have to move your fingers . marketing: What do you say ? Easy to use ? Five or a six ? industrial designer: It's really not easy to use . user interface: industrial designer: 'Cause you're putting everything marketing: So a six , more .  project manager: marketing: user interface: marketing:  well , another question , user interface: Yeah that looks  great . Nah industrial designer: Definitely in casing , 'cause we have a hard plastic marketing: But  In use , both battery as casing ? industrial designer: Yeah .  the last one ? The remote control's a good example for company's motto , we put the fashion in electronics . project manager: No marketing: Yeah ? industrial designer: Because we kind of tried to but we kind of failed with the budget that we have . It's it g it g goes , it's not the best we could do , I guess . marketing: But it all has to do with the budget , because it's it's not the bad idea we had , so industrial designer: Yeah .  marketing: I all made it po I I all made it user interface: marketing: I all made it possible  for a positive questions , so we can count it . marketing:  if you have reversed question , you have to reverse the scale , project manager: Yeah , yeah . user interface: Three plus ? industrial designer: I wouldn't be able to do it that fast . marketing: Yeah just use project manager: Start over ? user interface: No it's if you press twice on the plus button , then you get s s marketing: Oh there tho  there's no n There's no num pads . That's why it's  marketing: It's a it's a bit  industrial designer: Just type in the digits . project manager: So industrial designer: Yeah the lower the The lower the score the better , right ? project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: I Are you sure we this number actually tells us somethings ? project manager: No . industrial designer: I don't think so because some questions are related to positive issues and some to negative . industrial designer: So if you give a true to a positive , it actually means that the low the lower the better . But if you give true to a negative question marketing: Yeah , but there are no negative questions I guess . Becau But the picture would be a lot different if we didn't have to drop those  those things , I guess . Nah it it's it's better than average , but industrial designer: Yeah okay because of the L_C_D_ screen . industrial designer: it's not , it's not really eye-catching , except for the colour .  not on that , but marketing: Yeah we we have to maybe if we have to redesign it on this project manager: So you can just make one big L_C_D_ screen . Okay  we're still gonna go for the fancy colours ? project manager: Yeah  user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: But are we gonna stick with the green or are we gonna do blue ? marketing: Yeah . And then  over-paint it with   the green  project manager: The the button has a special colour , the frame has a special colour . project manager: user interface: So that's marketing: Do we have to do other things ? project manager: Well I have to   make an  report of every decision we made so far . project manager: So I marketing: So you made a start , right ? project manager: Yeah I'm I'm somewhere , but maybe you can help me . project manager:  user interface: Okay , but how do we make the the scroll  button ? project manager: I was here . marketing: The the target group has a weak spot for fruit and vegetables , like primary colours , spongy shape . marketing: The playfulness , we decided to use kinetic energy as a power sour industrial designer: Oh Yeah we did our special colour for the user interface: Yeah . user interface: Yeah , is it's horizontal or vertical ? marketing: How many pages ? project manager: I just took one for every step and then a conclusion . industrial designer: 'cause you can marketing: Okay , and and the look and feel is user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: Is it more natural than this ? project manager: Well I think I have to make a p an issue called finance . marketing: Where did we start with price ? user interface: Maybe m make it bigger ? Or marketing: Twenty six and a half . So we can make it  special ? industrial designer: Oh marketing: This ? industrial designer: What do you mean ? Like a other colour than this one ? user interface: Or or speckles in it ? I dunno .  marketing: Speckles ? user interface: industrial designer: Yeah can we do it   can we do a print ? user interface: ..$ I'm not sure . But industrial designer: I think we have to choose , yeah ? marketing:  industrial designer: Okay special colour . So industrial designer: Does it mean  that user interface: It's not very special , but  marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: Shall we just give it some dots to make it look pretty ? user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: How the We did we do that ? user interface: Oh it's it's just one computer ? Or marketing: Just dual screen . industrial designer: Where do you want some more dots ? project manager: user interface: Yeah , over here . user interface: It's  industrial designer: Okay , it's not the prettiest , I know . user interface: No , it looks industrial designer: It's not so random huh ? marketing: Lot of options . industrial designer:  it's not too  That's not their logo , is it ? user interface: No . user interface: Two R_s and a one industrial designer: It's a project manager: Yeah . Do we need to do anything ? user interface: Are we  ready ?  Or industrial designer: I hear you people are typing . user interface: Is this  the last assignment ? Or project manager: Yeah , it's  user interface: Final project manager: Yeah . marketing: What time do we have to deliver the report ? Four o'clock or industrial designer: At four , yeah , ? marketing: Or before that ? project manager: Okay . project manager: It's industrial designer: It looks like there's a It looks like a butterfly . user interface: No it's in inside the industrial designer: project manager: Yeah , and don't know how it's or eject it . project manager: From up there ? industrial designer: No , but it i It's not a bu a beamer . marketing: Yeah it it's a beamer , but then with a industrial designer: With a with a mirror , huh ? Or something . industrial designer: So are we gonna change anything to this ? user interface: It is industrial designer:  is it gonna marketing: Well it's it's single single curved . It's it's marketing: But it's it's better to have in the front , this kind of shape , because it looks nice . No , you sh marketing: I thought it was a kind of thing to put it on , and then draw right lines or something . user interface: Maybe that's why it's it's not working , because it's more industrial designer: Slanted yeah . But th this one wasn't good , because if I was drawing here , I drew a line and then it came over here . user interface: You have marketing: project manager: Oh , five minutes to the end of the meeting . industrial designer: user interface: Oh yeah yeah yeah yeah , it's it's working , it's working . industrial designer: Yeah it's only a bit like to that side , but that is that one by the way . Yeah but it's better , it's better user interface: No it industrial designer: 'Cause this one makes the angle either like this . So i if I change this , it will go there , if I change that , will go there . marketing: And then ? project manager: Then I have to   write this , marketing: We have to present project manager: and I don't know if you have to present , because I didn't receive any information about that so far . After after that five minutes , you have ten minutes to finish it , or industrial designer: It looks like candle wax . marketing: Yeah ? project manager:  marketing: How do you do it ? project manager:  well basically what that says , we discuss it and  marketing: Alright . project manager: So how were did the project process  go ? Did you , were you all pleased with the process as it was ? Or are there  industrial designer:  th  do you mean the the interaction between us ? Or project manager: Yeah the interaction and the steps we followed , and and so forth . industrial designer: But then as I knew the tempo that I had to be on , the second time I think I did a bit better . industrial designer: And the third time yeah ,  marketing: And we move more to to working together as team , user interface: No . marketing: because at first you you make your individual contribution , and then come here , and you have no idea what the others have to make . marketing: And then finally you have some idea , okay this is gonna w this is what we gonna make together and okay I will arrange this and you will arrange that , project manager: marketing: and you have a k a kind of idea what you can expect on the next half hour when you have to work on your own . industrial designer: Yeah we marketing: The process , the interaction between us became better and better I guess . user interface: And marketing: Yeah , especially if f f if you see  you se you saw the largest difference from the first to the second meeting I guess . marketing: industrial designer: Well you did become more assertive the the second time round , so that project manager: Yeah ? user interface: Yeah . user interface: Yeah but only the the financial parts  industrial designer:  marketing: Li Limiteded afterwards , user interface: Yeah . marketing: but If if you don't take that into account , there's plenty of room for creativ creativity . industrial designer: I marketing: Also not only the drawing and the the making of the thing itself , but also in explaining it to the other people , by means of  industrial designer: We were pretty democratic . project manager: So and the  about the board digital pen ?  was that helpful or industrial designer: Yeah . marketing:   I think in in essence project manager: marketing: the digital pen is better than the SMARTboard . marketing:    I've made yeah ,  I've made several notes just to test it , and and just put the pen in into it , and then it came onto my screen and it looked perfectly . industrial designer: It's  it's The the pen is more intuitive , 'cause we're all used to writing with pen . industrial designer: And  as I said ,  I  have no idea how PowerPoint works , so will take me half a day to be able to make a normal PowerPoint presentation . You can give it a kind of a home style , like we have i the the logo and everything . project manager: Okay , are are there any new ideas about this ? All I think marketing: Well , it project manager: I didn't really receive , yeah . marketing: It's use especially useful , I guess , to to evaluate designs and graph graphical stuff . project manager:   w  marketing: And and project manager: S sorry  marketing: the screen and stuff like that . The drawing board has to be integrated into PowerPoint , so that you can just easily marketing: Yeah . user interface: industrial designer: Yeah the the the problem with PowerPoint for me is that you have to i put in the pre-made chunks c as well . industrial designer: You know , you can draw something on the sketch-board and then take it there , or whatever . But it it's useful to to show something to to an a small audience , and then to user interface: Yeah just for text , for text it's  it's okay 