project manager:  before I start with the with the meeting I have a few things to tell you about the the setting we're in ,  because we're  being watched by  Big Brother . And  as I can see you  you have placed your laptops  exactly on the place where it must be . And that has to do with the camera settings , so we don't have our  laptops in front of the cameras . So  what are we going  to  to do ? What are we going to   make f  kind of functions in the remote ? And why are we going to do it ? Then the conceptual design .  because at the detailed design , how , part two ,  we go  to dig in  really about how the the te the technical of If it's  it's possible technical-wise . marketing: project manager:  each stage is   is broken up in two  two stages , individual work and a meeting . This one is for the presentations , the PowerPoint presentations or the Word presentation of whatever you  you had .  This  is very straightforward , with the save , the print , the undo , the blank , the select , the pen . Well , I don't  gonna explain it all , marketing: project manager: because I think you know  how it works . Every  every one of us  must draw our favourite animal , industrial designer: project manager: and  tell  tell us why we  had  chosen that animal . project manager: Yes ? marketing:  this exercise ,  did the company board tell you to do it , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: marketing: or  did you just make it up yourself ? project manager: No no no . So getting used to each other , we can  have a little fun then , before we  dig in really to the hard stuff . marketing: project manager: My favourite animal huh ? industrial designer: marketing: It's like Pictionary ? industrial designer: project manager: Yeah , you can guess what it is . industrial designer: marketing: user interface: industrial designer: marketing: It's a pork ? project manager: No , it's not an orc . user interface: project manager: You don't see it  at the ears ? marketing:  yeah , I have it at home . industrial designer: marketing: Miniature size ? project manager: So we  found it kinda cool to  name it after a lion . project manager: Yeah ? industrial designer: project manager: So choose a colour , choose a pen width and draw a user interface: You don't have to change the colour and the pen width during  the drawing . industrial designer: By the way , why was your cat  red ? project manager: Because  my cat is red  at home . project manager: user interface: Huh ? industrial designer: user interface: Oh , it is a turtle . project manager: You watched it a lot ? user interface: industrial designer: marketing:  ? project manager: You watched it a lot ? user interface: It's  inside its shell .  marketing: industrial designer: user interface: How did it work ? project manager: Format ? And then you have the the current colour , user interface: Performance ? project manager: you can change . marketing: project manager: Tim had  Tim , what kinda line width did you have ? user interface:  marketing:  the big lines were like nine . Why a dog ? You have a dog at home ? user interface: Well , we had a dog , a few years ago . project manager: Had a dog ? marketing: it's p project manager: Yeah ? user interface: And and it , yeah , when it died we didn't get a new one or something . user interface: But  marketing: It's pretty good  industrial designer: project manager: You have an artistic  inner middle . marketing: Wha user interface: Well , project manager: Okay , user interface: it's okay . user interface: industrial designer: I figure I should do something like that , project manager: industrial designer: but I'm gonna do something much more difficult . user interface: Well with the interface , it might be easier to ha to draw here and display there  . But at the other hand ,  a pen like that is easy to hold in your hand , and project manager: No . user interface: Than on the , with project manager: user interface: Yeah , I m  like  like on here , drawing drawing  . user interface: marketing: Project Manager ?  project manager: Yeah ? industrial designer: Where does the pen go ? Just  marketing: Have you been  counting the time ? project manager: Yeah , a little . project manager:  the selling price for the remote will be  twenty five Euro , and the production cost  may not be more than  twenty and a half Euro . So  from my point of view , I don't think it's  gonna be very  very high tech , high definition ,  ultra modern  kinda remote , for twelve  fift  twelve and a half Euro . We have to sell  a lot of  user interface: Yeah , how much is it ? marketing: Like how much ? user interface: Hundred million  remotes or something ? project manager:  I think  w when the selling price is twenty five ,   you got two million , two million remotes . Well what what's the most  important thing at a remote control ? user interface:  well I think the most important thing of a remote control is that you can switch channels . So not a not a remote control who   which can  can be used for television and a D_V_D_ and radio and Or just only marketing: Yeah . Can I show them on the on the big screen ? Maybe ? project manager: If you have them on  I can  marketing: Yeah . Between the the the , yeah , the the  user interface: marketing: Screen ? project manager: Yeah , be The screens . user interface: Is it possible to open pen drawings in this  on this screen ? project manager: No no no . Only All the drawings go there , at the left  user interface:  but  which The ones we made on the project manager: Oh , that pen drawings .  no , I think  when it is  in Word and you have saved it in the Shared Documents folder , you can show it there .  I think , it doesn't have to matter  which brand your T_V_ or other thing is . marketing: And  by making it multi-purpose , it  has a new feature , adds a new feature to the market , and distinguish from  from current products .  I rather find it very annoying  , like when someone is standing in front of the T_V_ then you can't switch it . It's nice as an added feature feature , that  , when you're on a certain channel , you can see on the L_C_D_ screen  what programmes are coming up or project manager: Okay . project manager: remote ? Yeah , it must be really  innovative , technical-wise ? marketing: Yeah , it has to be  Yeah , our company is very  good in making new innovative  things . user interface: We marketing: So i i i i project manager: So we must focus on things who are really  really add something to  to marketing: To the current market . But we have to keep an eye that it's  at the beginning of such a project , it's it's it's very  cool to talk about , well , this would be cool , that would be cool . project manager:  but we must not  lose  sight of the the user   friendly  marketing: Yeah , of course . So  you  will have  individual actions where I presume  will be some feedback ,  via the m the mail .  one thing  , project manager: Yeah ? user interface: we must first agree on  what we're going to m going to make . Do we Are we going to use  it it for multiple systems ? Or  We should have some agreement on that before we project manager: Okay .  wha marketing:   I I don't think we have to be , we have to agree on that . But maybe , because  you are working on the user requirements , you are working on the technical functions , we  must  have a little or kinda    How do you call it ?  user interface: Consensus on the , what we're gonna do . So you don't   come up with the user requirements who don't fit the the the the technical functions at all . project manager: W He says user interface: if the technical functions have to be designed , I I've gotta know for what kind of machines they will be . user interface: Or do we use it a text screen ? Or  will it be with  with bluetooth or project manager: Well , th that's that's really a step further . But if you say  is it   one way or multi-purpose , that's a user interface: Okay . marketing: Like we all have a list of  things that has to b that have to be in it , or how it has to be like . project manager: each individually i individually  must think on what's  at  his point of view is the most important 