user interface: Are we doing the the speech recognition ? Because we didn't have enough time to  de  design the inside as well . project manager: Okay , just user interface: Yeah , just  we have to design the inside then , but it should be  industrial designer: Yeah , and Or are we making a slide open , like underneath ? Or fold open ? I don't know . project manager: Okay , so that's  I'll just have a look how much that is . industrial designer: The project manager: But  Okay , for the user interface: Advanced chip was for  spee Yeah . marketing: Means industrial designer: So you hold it like this in your right hand and project manager:  . user interface:  so I've industrial designer: Yeah , maybe maybe  you have to configure it . user interface: Yes , you need options to configure it , and after that you don't need 'em anymore . user interface: That's  industrial designer: Well we haven't had time to design that , the slide pad . user interface: We also don't know how many buttons are required , or what kind of buttons . marketing: user interface: So  the best place , the best reach place  on-off buttons , text buttons , mute buttons are together and at a place they easily are , easy to find . That way you don't have to make it red , 'cause it's will  will show up .  y you need to have more  one two th You've got one two three four five six seven eight nine . user interface: Okay yeah , they marketing: But you missed the no  the zero and  the two stripes . user interface: And also in the num-pads , there's also colour light behind it . project manager: And do you still can , do you still can choose what colour , kind of colour you want ? user interface: So when you pre Yeah . project manager: How do you want to implement that ? Just on the Maybe on the second level as well ? user interface: We're going to implement . industrial designer: All the non-basic are in project manager: Okay , just draw draw the second level , because we need that as well .  marketing: Okay , there is one  function I use  daily , and it's not on the basic functions . industrial designer: Okay , maybe we use this button for the marketing: That function must be Yeah , maybe Or you can  i  lay it  beneath in the  other  functions . project manager: Just just draw a second level one and say all options that are still left or something . industrial designer: Like a a new blank one or Or just here ? project manager: No no , just on Down there . marketing: And h how does the second level come out ? project manager: Just  if you s marketing:  it slides  along ? user interface:  slides I think . user interface: You can do it that it claps open , but I think that's not solid enough . marketing: Scart ? user interface: I think we can even put a We have one for the zero and one for the for the more digit  channels . user interface: So you have one left for the Right , the video channel , Play Station , etcetera . user interface: project manager: You want to save that file as well ? The drawing ? user interface: That was it . What else ? user interface:  ? industrial designer: What else ? user interface: What else ?  menu buttons with arrows . project manager: user interface: Well we don't have any , anything on how many buttons speech requires . marketing:  and and you can hold it , project manager: marketing: you can hold it , and then the colours switch or  multiple multiple buttons . That's   industrial designer: So did we miss anything ? user interface: Yeah , maybe some  some text next to the scroll wheel , that it is volume . marketing: Yeah , but project manager: No , ma on on o on the on the user interface: I just  The volume logo . marketing: there's one there's one text button I industrial designer: Oh wh Here ? project manager: Yeah . That's the one  that you use if you search for a page ,  like seven hundred ,  and it's counting from one hundred to two hundred , you will switch to your television and back to text . marketing: Did you think of that ? industrial designer: Yeah , but then you can switch back to normal telete teletext . You just switch it off and then user interface:  why not ? project manager: Yeah , just put it on those extra f extra function as well . And if you press it again , you get the the the user interface: I think  marketing: The sta the state you project manager: Oh just three stages , you industrial designer: through view . industrial designer: Yeah , b but but if you're in the second stage , the third stage is switch teletext off . If you if you turn teletext on , you you set the seven hundred , and you turn it off , then the next time you turn it on , it still stays on seven hundred ? project manager: Yes , that's to remember . project manager: Yeah , but that's that's  marketing: But maybe it's not the way user interface: I dunno if project manager: That's a functionality for the television . industrial designer: Yeah  nee  No , if i  the remote can send like the the code for seven hundred , page seven hundred to the television . industrial designer: Th i project manager: That's what what happening if you do it like that . So that's it ? project manager: Is this prich pretty much it , yeah ? marketing: Yeah , I I thought about one thing . marketing: Because  if you use it a couple of years , some  sometimes the numbers on the on the buttons are slide away , are  And maybe we can write the numbers below or above ? Or shall we just turn it on on the buttons ? user interface: I think just on the buttons . industrial designer:  I think just  user interface: If you do it abo above or below , it takes  more space .  well I looked in the reports  from the marketing strategy , or  of  the the the the the the new needs and  the market . We sh we we we can give it  a number , and then we can give ourself an average for our project manager: Okay . marketing: Yeah , the the the difference be between  beautiful and fancy  look-and-feel is  the the the outside  beautiful  like the iPod or something . And fancy's more like the   f the flashing lights and the colours and and that kind of stuff . user interface: If it's really  , if you can if you can get the iPod look , then it's beautiful , I think . project manager: But  marketing: And and what ki what kind of what kind of basic colours  were you thought  of ? industrial designer: Yeah beautiful's is also a matter of taste . user interface:  ? marketing: The basic colours are black or green or yellow ? user interface:  basic colours , marketing: Or you haven't thought about user interface:  yeah . marketing: Ho how do we make  user interface: Maybe  company colours ? project manager: It's black . marketing: Can project manager: Do we have yellow light ? No , not really , but it's possible . project manager: It's marketing: Black white , maybe ? user interface: Like white , also ni or  always nice . industrial designer: And what colours should the buttons be ? marketing:  Because  project manager: Yeah , different colours . industrial designer: But can you change those too , with  the switch ? project manager: No , no . marketing: Okay , so what  number do we give  a beautiful ? Beautiful is  really subjective ,  because it has to do lots with the colours . user interface: Well we have changeable fronts , so marketing: Changeable fronts , so ev for everyone for everyone it's something beautiful . marketing: So industrial designer: Are w are we changing  Or are they there  backlights on the slide panel too ? Or n no back light ? marketing: Slide panel ? industrial designer: Yeah ? project manager: No . industrial designer: And and the switch channel is  There is a back light too ? project manager: That as well , yeah . That's that's really fancy , but I don't know if it's reachable . industrial designer: And th and the the normal backlights also not the buttons , but behind the buttons . user interface: Yeah , w we've done a a lot of detail in light , so marketing: So I'll give it a project manager: Ye marketing: Yeah , and you can  also choose your light , so project manager: Yeah , this It is a one . project manager: This is a difficult one , because we we don't Yeah , we don't know it about the marketing: Learnable ? Easy to use ? Yeah , we shall test it But  project manager:  it's it's very easy to use , but  the second layer is not easy to use . project manager: It's That's industrial designer: No , but you don't have to use that . industrial designer: That's th that's the main thing that's so good about it . user interface: So I think it's easy to use , but And learnable is a bit marketing: Learnable ? It's not not as fast as a usual   remote control . marketing: Because because I think I think the scroll wheel ,  it's very handy , but the first time you get this thing in your hands , it's not to use the scroll wheel . user interface: Well y just  f marketing: I think  you must  seek for it , and up or down or project manager: But the rest of it is very easy , marketing:  then the re project manager: because there are so so n user interface: Yeah , I think it's very clear what it all does . user interface: But the second parts ,  like speech , etcetera , that will be harder to learn . project manager: So it is learnable  f i i In the first place it's very easy to use . user interface: It's Yeah it's marketing: But project manager: And I think its scrollwheel is u easy to use as well , if you have ever used  a different kind of  of  device . But we we've got the two so two  two or three  new things , huh ? user interface: Device . project manager: Okay , just Easy to use is very cool , marketing: I I think it a three or something . Learnable's project manager: No , but definitely better , much better than  than  than avera average , yeah . industrial designer: And the one you showed is just all buttons and you don't know user interface: Yep , true . project manager:  I already have a V_C_R_ and it's about from nineteen eighty eight . user interface: But also slide that buttons come out , as well ? industrial designer: project manager: Yeah . marketing: Is that new ? project manager: Yeah for a  for a f marketing: The lighting's new . user interface: Different colours , so marketing: Yeah , different fronts for a remote control , I think that's new too . marketing: So we have a pretty new  project manager: There are no games on it , that's that's It's not a one , it's a two again . user interface: That would And we didn't  marketing: It's it's it's not not L_C_D_ or something . project manager: If you have user interface: We are forgetting about that now , but project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: Yeah , we didn't draw that too , but user interface: But that's more like  now . project manager: If you Can you save it on the same , in the same map as the other ones ? In the the project  map ? user interface:  Just save , save as ? project manager: Yeah . And new features , so we give it a two or also again a one ? No , I think i if you have games on it , then then you give you have a one .  we are the targeted audience ? Do we like it ? marketing: No , we we we searched for   a young group , audience , beneath f forty . Yeah , but did we reach ,  with our  style , the targeted audience ? project manager: I think so , yeah . project manager: So you want industrial designer: We've got a one for fancy look-and-feel , and that's what attracts the young audience . marketing:  the only point is that we don't  have   That's that's That's this question . user interface: You can different front  marketing:  yeah , th So we had we  have  a fruit  project manager: So industrial designer: Like a a f banana kind of front . marketing: That's  project manager: It's marketing: What's the average ? industrial designer: Eleven divided by six . project manager: Oh yeah , that's still user interface:  marketing: Call industrial designer: Yeah , but  we have to make a speaker then too . marketing: That's Yeah , but it industrial designer: But we can we can do it  underneath the logo . user interface: Yeah , th the speaker is very small as well , right ? industrial designer: Yeah , okay . Yeah , there are some that they didn't mention , because recharge is not on the list . So I think we are pretty much in the right direction , because it's twelve point three Euros . industrial designer: But  is   project manager: So this is a regular chip incl and and a sample speaker . industrial designer: But but is it inc Does it include a a homestation or project manager: No , that's not on the list . industrial designer: Can we make that for  h twenty cents ? user interface: Yeah , we can  marketing: project manager: Probably . I just The b the button supplements , I didn't I d I was wondering if this special colour maybe was I'm not sure . So industrial designer: Yeah m If we got a high mark for   innovativeness or innovativity project manager: Yeah . project manager: Okay , so the leadership Was there a leadership and user interface: Of course there was . industrial designer: project manager: What do you have to say about that ? industrial designer: No , I think marketing: Who was the leader ? project manager: I dunno . industrial designer: Yeah , w we had so much information , that we get through email and just project manager: We're not finished . user interface: And  I think it would be great if you could edit it from , just with a mouse , from where you're sitting . project manager: And so you've industrial designer: Yeah , and p just point with a mouse . user interface: Oh industrial designer: What's that ? marketing: For for for project manager: I don't know what it mean . Just user interface: I just think if we  marketing: To gather , or to  work together ,  or new ideas for project manager: For remote control probably . industrial designer: Yeah , but still , you couldn't make a fancy a f you couldn't make a a prototype out of this . industrial designer: Yeah , but it You can't possibly do that in such a short time , I think . Yeah , this this is just the idea phase , the industrial designer: Yeah , just brainstorming basically . Do we  I thought we were done at four o'clock ? industrial designer: It's now quarter past three . user interface: This is industrial designer: We're probably not supposed to look at this , but user interface: The old versions . marketing: What's this ? A bomb or not a bo user interface: No no , the upper one is the bomb . industrial designer: And what else do we have ? user interface: Stupid , the L_C_D_ screen . marketing: 'Kay wait , I'm going to draw something and you must y industrial designer: user interface: What ? Okay , I'm going to guess what you're drawing . project manager: You have to save everything , you know that , huh ? user interface: No , not everything . user interface: I think I know what you're trying to draw , but it's wrong already . F user interface: No , you're wrong , you're wrong marketing: A little bit maybe , but user interface: See where you're wrong now ? The entrance . But but but I think this part user interface: Yeah , but I think marketing: user interface: Oh no you made another mistake 