industrial designer: How are you today ? How was your business trip to Boston ? project manager:  well , actually I didn't go , didn't feel like it . user interface: You have the same message of  Windows cannot  marketing: user interface: sen oh stand-by . user interface: project manager:  I'm sure you've had a mail from our account manager about it .  Ruud is here as the Marketing Expert , Roo is here as the User Interface Designer and Sebastian is here  in the role of Industrial Designer . project manager:  we're going to do    a little tool training  for the tools we are going to use  during  the meetings we are going to have here .  then I will tell you a little bit about my idea of the project plan ,  and we will have a discussion .  is there any room for a little presentation ?  maybe during the discussion  section ? project manager: There is ? Yeah , there is . user interface: project manager:  okay , this new product we are are g are going to develop ,  it's a remote control , a television remote control . Those are kind of easy    goals ,  and I'm sure we can find more goals for the for the product we are going to develop .  we will discuss  later on more ideas about  how the remote should look and how it sh it should function and all those kind of things .  we are going to use a a pred a project method  during  this development ,  which consists of three different design stages .  the functional design , the conceptual design and the detailed design ,  all of these stages   mean that we do some individual work , prepare , and then  meet to discuss our   the the the progressions , yes . project manager:  the first stage , the functional design  we are going to search for the user requirements , and we will  make a specific  specification of that .  the second is the technical functional design ,  what effect should the remote have ? Well in this case control t the the television I think .  to  presentate , to show us  a file you'll need to  place it in your project documents folder , which is on your desktop , at least it should be . project manager: sensors , so do not grab it here , but a lit more a little bit more to the  to the end .  you can insert a new  slide or or white-board   file  by either using the insert function or by clicking the next button or the blank button . user interface: or should we only use it in the in the meetings ? project manager: Yeah , in the meetings , only in the meetings .  to  oh well , I'm I wrote down the documents  should be in the project documents folder if you want to  discuss it with us .  as a little training  I will ask Ruud first to draw   your own animal on a new slide  with  a different colour and a different line width than the one  now selected . marketing: project manager:  Roo , could you do the same please ? But a different animal with a different colour and a different line width . Well , it looked more than a bunny than a cat , but it works , industrial designer: Well , I'll give it a try . user interface: project manager: Okay , so  you can use this at any time during the presentation if you want to .  user interface: industrial designer: marketing: project manager: we  we will focus this internationally , so the product will be sold  , if there is market  interest ,  in in more than one country . And  the production costs should not be more than  twelve Euro fifty , so we should keep that in mind by  w w during the development ,  because  , well , those are important numbers . industrial designer: Yes ,  I have some technical  issues which I would like to present to you  before we start the discussion , because  there might be some  project manager: Limitations . I would like to think about  the implementation of  of things , and the technical possibilities and impossibilities . So if someone of you comes up with  ideas ,  I'll try to translate them in technical functions , but  there might be some impossibilities .  and I also will remind people of some new technical possibilities which are available and which might be interesting to implement in our product . industrial designer: I have some  initial ideas about some things  which are maybe nice to take with you in the upcoming  discussion . user interface: And for a cell phone ? industrial designer: Well , there should be some interoperabi interoperability between them . We're not  living in the  nineteen eighties anymore , so infrared is not  project manager: industrial designer: is not really  hot  technical stuff anymore . user interface: But Yeah , but the infrared , it's  , well , a little bit old-fashioned , if you would call it like that . user interface: But all the T_V_s are  equipped with infrared , so industrial designer: But it's cost-effective . user interface: Or you shou sh use a industrial designer: So marketing: user interface: you should equip infrared and Bluetooth together in one remote . So that's just my role , I'll just  give you  everybody some technical input , and I think now the time is to have a little discussion about what  the product should be and how it should look , project manager: Yeah . project manager: Okay , so the the main por  the main points you are  telling us are focus on the inter  operability , industrial designer: Yes , project manager: and industrial designer: so one thing  one remote control should  control one or more  pieces of equipment , project manager: Okay , and and  industrial designer: and the way of communicating with these equipments .  there are other things like  how to make it trendy , which is I think   most  Ru  Ruud's  role . project manager: H how do you think the remote should  function for the user ? user interface: Well , I had a few  things in mind .  well , the interoperability , just like  Sebastian said ,  the remote should work on different T_V_s or even different   Yeah  , what is it , devices ? project manager: Yep . user interface:  so i i I think it's a universal remote control for customers to buy just new in  a store . user interface: It's not for  for  for  Philips or whatever to buy our remote for their own product , project manager: Okay , so we're we're going business to consumer , user interface: right ? project manager: not we're we're it's not a user interface: Yeah , I do I don't know that . industrial designer: We're not developing this product for a specific vendor , are we ? project manager: No . industrial designer: we're just developing this product , and we want to sell it to a very broad  public , so it should fit to every device . project manager:  Ruud , y do you agree ? marketing: Yeah , I think I think they're right , yeah . user interface:  Well , the techni fu technical function  what you said is just by pressing the button you should change the state of the T_V_ . user interface: Well , that's just the fu the technical function is pure what should the remote control do , wh what is his task  as an  as an  device .  but furthermore industrial designer: And you you see  the buttons as a as a means of doing this ? user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: Or are there any o other controls ? user interface: Yeah , or maybe you want a touch-screen or industrial designer: Are there only any other cont Well , user interface: But industrial designer: I I've seen these remote controls with  this little stick  which you can move forward , sidewords . And  it's very easy for a user to to switch user interface: They're very vu vulnerable . industrial designer: to to switch b  between  channels or  change  between tracks on a on a C_D_ , on on a chapters , you know , on a D_V_D_ player .  point at a T_V_ , I think it's it's quite disturbing when you always have to point directly to the T_V_ , industrial designer: user interface: Yeah , just don't even point it , so in that case infrared should  maybe  be restriction to that . project manager:  industrial designer:  is that  are there restriction for the range , the operating range too ? So when you're not able to point at the device  the range is very limited . For T_V_ , you're always in in the neighbourhood of a T_V_ , so I don't think think the range should be a problem to that , industrial designer: user interface: but if you want to  get it working with a radio , and you're in outside your garden with just one  speaker , then maybe the range should be  industrial designer: project manager: Okay , gentlemen ,   just a reminder , we d we have five minutes left for this meeting industrial designer: Okay . user interface:  You should able to feel the buttons without  it mis  you have to know what you do without looking at the buttons , so it should be as user interface  for feeling should be  good to understand . user interface: And of course you don't always know where all buttons are , so it should be visible al  in dark too . user interface: So when it's dark project manager: user interface: Those are two really  user interface project manager:  I'll write down glow in the dark . industrial designer: Do do you project manager:  do you have anything already w  ab idea about how the market  will respond to the such a product ? Or what we should take  in account when developing such a product ? marketing:  I think most most things have already been said , like  control multiple devices . project manager: Because ? marketing:  well , he said about n abo what he said about pointing . Okay , Sebastian , did you have any other ideas ? industrial designer:  well yes , I had ,  about three minutes ago , project manager: user interface: industrial designer: but I've seem to forget them forgot them . industrial designer:   would it be nice for a user to have display on this  remote control , on which you can see functions ? Which makes it easier to operate it . Well , maybe I  but it it can be quite simple , industrial designer: I I don't know . project manager: Yeah , yeah , okay , because because we wa we want to develop a trendy product . project manager: Yeah , industrial designer: Well , that's more project manager: twelve Euro fifty , yeah . I think the the financial part of this project  implicates that it's not going to be a high high-end product . project manager: So  maybe we could  for example  only light the buttons that are   applicable at that moment or user interface: But  Necessary , yeah . user interface: 'Cause I think Bluetooth  industrial designer: It's use  a lot of  project manager: Well does it ? user interface: Yeah , I know it from the cell phone .  industrial designer: Well , cell phones have  integrated Bluetooth also and , well , it's it seems to work  quite okay . user interface: But you can't you can't use Bluetooth all the time , twenty four hours a day .  next meeting starts in thirty minutes and  , well , you know your o your individual actions or your personal coach will probably email you about th it 