I'm busy writing and busy leading the meeting , but  I've prepared a little presentation once again  or at least an agenda I think  the biggest part of the presentation will be  on your side .  once again I will try to  write some minutes which I just from the previous meeting  placed inside our project folder , which was quite some typing .  today we once again have  three presentations , if I'm right , and after that we will take a decision on the remote control concepts . Okay , well industrial designer: project manager: I'd say let's start with the first presentation . user interface: marketing: industrial designer: Components design ,   first of all  I would like to   accommodate some of those  things I   elaborate some of the things I did . What should be   said about  the components ,  its properties and what kind of materials should we use to  to make  one of those r remote controls .  well first of all I've  d subtracted some of the components that is that are used  are w w  you know from what  the remote control's formed . There's one of the because when you use a remote control a lot of people  will  will  drop their remote control marketing: Drop it .  titanium  you have to paint it and with that  it's possible to scratch it or  yeah make it ugly .  rubber  the total  piece of rubber that's sor  that's that's used  to make the case is  the same colour , so if you scratch it it's still the same colour , perhaps  it's a little bit damaged . I think it's  it's best to draw oh user interface: It's a colour . user interface: industrial designer: So you get  it doesn't lay flat down on the table , but it's c it's stands . industrial designer: Side view yes it's side view so  I I'm not technically good at th three D_ modelling , user interface: industrial designer: but . marketing: industrial designer:   it's just an idea I had so it's  it's very  so its also looks nice when it's on the table .  I thought about  the L_C_D_ touch screen , which is  is easy to clean too . One of the great  advantages of the L_C_D_ screen you just use some or  another  cleaning   cl some cleaning stuff . Well I already  s  explained some properties of that material and I think  well we also we almost concluded about that  this should  be  our  button component .  the batteries ,  we also thought about that already ,  will be chargeable with   an option for a mount station so you can  put the  the remote control in a mount station so its charges itself up instead of  plugging it in or something like that . industrial designer: And they should be long lasting , not  not be empty  in about  two minutes or  thirty minutes or forty minutes of use . And next step is the chip  th the component that's  makes or transmits the signal to the television .  there was an option to use s a rather simple chip but I think  because  of our  highly  requiring  requirements , there should be an advanced chip in it user interface: industrial designer: with  also the ability to  facilitate speaker speech recognition  which unfortunately is still in a test phase , so  there should be some more  investigation on that side .  my personal preferences  I also overheard in the last meeting that there shou we should use  our own business colours . user interface: project manager: Well , business colours I thought it was the the slogan and  the corporate image , so yeah , it needs colour , industrial designer: Okay they should be m sh they should be in mind , project manager: but I don't think you have to make the entire thing in the corporate colour . industrial designer: wasn't it ? Okay so it d it doesn't says  to  have the slogan ? project manager: It must be recognisable .  so they are pretty boring , I suggest , because just the availability with rubber to make fantastic colours  and also in a lot of possible colours , so it's possible to make very  fancy  remote controls which peopl  who people in which people will find they're  interesting .  s as I said  before rubber is  is impossible to damage severely imp instead of  of course you can break it when you you when you break it in s for example with a pair of scissors or something like that , but i if you drop it it's not  broken  right away s instead of using  plastic , hard plastic or  titanium . user interface: industrial designer: user interface: Alright so industrial designer: user interface: I thought a little bit about the interface . And   we  determined that will not be no buttons , but only an L_C_D_ screen , so I had to  look on that . And so that it you say  good morning ,  coffee maker , and it says t says to you back good morning Joe or what's your name . user interface: This  and there's an easy way to  program that  you say record into the device into the speaker and then you say the question and three seconds later you say the answer and then when you say the question it gives you the answer . industrial designer: user interface: And then I have to go out of the presentation because I tried to make some kind of a a idea of how it should look like industrial designer: Oh my God . I don't know if there is an icon for the program , but industrial designer: Not just a P_ . user interface: and then the buttons above and  below marketing: user interface: the and the and the mute button also recognisable as an icon . marketing: Where's where's the button for two ? user interface: I forgot that one . industrial designer: user interface: And  and  the numbers , that should be a bit larger I think it's not really on scale and and so forth . And I thought the the button for teletext apar  apart because it's not really options , I think . It's  options is the settings of the remote and of the T_V_ and that kind of  thing . Perhaps we could be more curvy the remote perhaps should , so that it's better in your hand or something  . industrial designer: Oh okay , user interface: But  and and  a microph microphone for the speech  recognition if we want to implement that . user interface:  and then  if you press the op options button , now we have an example of and then you should get the other options with what what you could do and that you could do with something like this this . user interface: And  it's also  I thought think we discussed  earlier that  older people don't really want to use  these extra settings . And older people a also don't really want to use this  th this kind of option menus . So they want to u use one button and then something happens , and not choose with  this kind of  And you could put in a an a really s little scrolling device on the side of your  remote , project manager: user interface: industrial designer: marketing: Okay , I'm going to tell you something about a trend watching . The trends from the past years , what the people like , what the youngsters like , what the elderly people liked about shapes , colours , material and stuff . The method I used was Like I told I watched the trends from the past years about colours , shapes , material they wanted  from elderly and young people . The second important thing that w should be if inv in innov innovative , okay , like the L_C_D_ screen that's quite innovative so that should be great meeting for this . I think with only one menu , four button , channel , volume , it should also be enough for easy to use . The personal preferences for the young people , they liked fruity colours like  banana yellow ,  strawberry red and stuff . industrial designer: marketing: Th Elderly people like au colours which y are being seen in autumn like  woods  dark brown , red , deep reds and stuff . This is a bit like the young peoples like the fruity colours , innovative , all the colours you see , the blue , the red , the white , the yellow , that stuff . And then I th I I personally thought the front side of the shape should be something for the youngsters like like project manager: Oh y marketing: this or something . Because we decided to have two kind of remotes , two designs , or was it two colours ? user interface: It was one remote , I think , marketing: Different colours , yeah . I think like my colleague , you said , is that's e better , or for the elderly people something like like the iPod or something , with round squares . marketing: That is my Yeah , like the older o older colours I can maybe user interface: You could you could  change the colours , that was also the idea . marketing: Colours th the elderly people project manager: Yeah , I guess changing colours will be easier than changing  user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: Yeah , s project manager: industrial designer: round corners , but s but square , yeah . project manager: user interface:  i i if you do it   square , with round corners but a little  in the middle of it  i Do you know what  ? industrial designer: Yeah I know what you mean , kind of like a . But that's  industrial designer: It's also easy to to have to to put in your hand . user interface: Yeah but that's also how other remotes are shaped , so that's  But perhaps that's a good thing , industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: Yeah , kinda like old cars ,  marketing: And a bit bit old school style renaissance , medieval kind of things . project manager: marketing: So Sorry ? user interface: That's easy to do with the colours , I think . In material yeah rubber , rubber is , like I said , young people like more soft materials and spongy ones industrial designer: marketing: and the old people like plain wood . marketing: So we have to decide if we're going to use real hard rubber , or soft rubber . user interface: I don't think you should be able to mould it , marketing: Or user interface: but industrial designer: It should shouldn't be . user interface:  did you have something about  marketing: Are you going to invite Sponge Bob , maybe he can industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: Then you can fit the L_C_D_ screen in it , marketing: user interface: and can decide  . industrial designer:  I also s  can't help but notice that you  used an you had a remote control user interface: industrial designer: and the L_C_D_ screen was  rather small . marketing: Yeah user interface: Yeah marketing: w I think that L_C_D_ screen should be like user interface: it it's supposed to be bit s bit s bit industrial designer: .. marketing: Yeah the buttons won't get that small when the L_C_D_ screen is industrial designer:  new , blank . So  when you get this  user interface: marketing: user interface: Ooh industrial designer:  kinda like this . industrial designer: Larger ? Because you want to put your hands user interface: But if you pu marketing: Yeah user interface: Now you can put your hand there and then you won't touch the screen . industrial designer: You want marketing: becau because you have user interface: Perhaps that's best . industrial designer: Because when you put your f Yeah but if yo if you make the the L_C_D_ screen as large as the remote control itself ,  you'll you'll always get some user interface: You always touch it , industrial designer: You user interface: yeah . marketing: But it won't get that small because you have how much ? Nine ten eleven twelve thirteen fourteen fifteen buttons on the screen . marketing: One to zero , the two digit , industrial designer: Yeah you don't want it too small . How yeah how large marketing: You have to you have to Because some fat people with d thick fingers will press three buttons at same time . But if you wanna make it in international , Japanese  people got  rather small hands marketing: Yeah true , industrial designer: and we got these large marketing: but Yeah , we have we have the zoom option , right ? industrial designer: Zoom opt Ah yeah of course , yeah . user interface: Y you could include a pen industrial designer: You don't want  marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: Because if you lose the pen  if you lose the pen  you can't use marketing: Use a pen You you c you can lose the pen . project manager: Yeah but I think people want to use a remote with with their fingers because th they're used to that marketing: Yeah the fingers , yeah . project manager: and industrial designer: user interface: Yeah I think this  this is a good size for the screen . I don't know how how large the actual remote should be but a little bit like this , or something . project manager: And maybe we have to add a tissue to remove the grease from all the fingers , huh . Yeah , project manager: Okay well marketing: you can buy those at project manager: maybe , if I can interrupt you , maybe I should  should show some points on which we  should take a decision . How how should we  supply the thing with energy and how are we going to do it with separate docking station and then put in it . marketing: Maybe it's better to to include rechargeable batteries project manager: We already decided that on the previous meeting . marketing: So if the badg the batteries are dead industrial designer: I kinda like your marketing: then you can re you can  change them . user interface: not not like two or two  marketing: Yeah , normal plain you No normal plain batteries you can buy at the supermarket or retail shop .  what was with the chip on print ? industrial designer: The chip on print ?   you gotta f Yeah . Didn't we ? project manager: Yeah but how did this how does that with a L_C_D_ screen ? You still have a print plate . industrial designer: Beg your pardon ? marketing: You always have a print plate , project manager: user interface: marketing: project manager: It just was in there industrial designer: Well  project manager: and I didn't have any information about it , industrial designer: chip on print , I think what they mean  with the regular rubber buttons that you got ,  it's always clear for the remote control when you press  a certain button . industrial designer: But when you got a L_C_D_ screen , with no  with not the buttons are not always on the same place , marketing: Yeah , okay . But industrial designer: for example if you enlarge a button , or if you got several options  appearing on your screen ,  the co-ordinations aren't always the same . industrial designer: When you got a regular button , th the button of stand-by is always on the same place and you got on the and on the marketing: Yeah okay , but the p print plate of L_ L_C_D_ screen is more advanced than a normal print plate , industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: I don't I dunno I don't think that's industrial designer: It is a simple C_P_U_ but it doesn't marketing: Yeah yeah okay but I d I I don't know if nor o s it's quite a simple L_C_D_ . industrial designer: Yeah because it has to  b marketing: Yeah , it's quite a simple L_C_D_ screen . industrial designer: Yeah but it the the remote control has to know whether you're in a settings menu or just  you just want to turn up the volume . industrial designer: So it has to have some kind of a calculation unit or C_P_U_ user interface: industrial designer: to know  in which state you are and  which button you are pressing in at the right moment . user interface: industrial designer: And a touch screen makes it  possible to  to get the co-ordination of your finger on the screen . industrial designer: And the case , yeah we already discussed the case , user interface: It's rubber . industrial designer: we wanted to make it from rubber user interface: Yeah but but a hard rubber like this ? industrial designer: and  user interface: Or softer rubber or industrial designer:  hard rubber I think . user interface: Yeah yeah this in different colours ? industrial designer: D marketing: So the shapes is something between the square shapes with round colo corners and a round shapes ? No I don't think , I think it's more round than square . marketing: Lower than forty years , I think industrial designer: Well and how about my idea  of making it  with one single curve ? marketing: it was . industrial designer: So i marketing: Oh yeah that that I think I thought that was a quite good user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: Because it's a gadget and you want to show it off , of course . project manager: So industrial designer: Because it marketing: You can put it on your table with the L_C_D_ screen , industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: you don't have to put it get it in your hand , you can put it next to you industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: So , so marketing: So project manager: Okay so industrial designer: you got  user interface: And then industrial designer: Did you write that down ?  got a single curved  rubber f  fancy coloured remote control . user interface: marketing: You can't you You can't oh , you c you can draw it on your paper and then load it on the industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: It's pretty easy but And marketing: And load it on the the user the server . project manager: What about the user interface , there are also some some questions  about the concepts I think you have some ideas on that . At least  what we should also have on , I just remembered ,  a menu to go back through the first  if if you touch options , you can't go back to this  right away now . user interface: This marketing: Isn't it better to have the sound and the general buttons horizontal ? user interface: I don't know . user interface: I think it's marketing: I think it's easier than user interface: I don't know . user interface: Would you like the the buttons horizontal or v vertical ? marketing: For sound and channel . If you make it  in a rectangle user interface: Right well if we make it like this , I think if you marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: I so it's it's it's it's user interface: put it like this industrial designer: Square . marketing: I think it's it's easier to have it something like Oh a button  minus here , plus over here . marketing: The options and then you have something like  the P_ over here , user interface: But I think I wou industrial designer: marketing: and the sound . user interface: but I think when you are holding it , you could press the minus and the plus and with the other finger the minus and the plus . marketing: Yeah I think you're going to s you're going to use it with one thumb . industrial designer: W user interface: I don't know industrial designer: We'll leave that to the usability engineering then . user interface: But I'm going to look if I've got some examples industrial designer: user interface: 'cause perhaps you should choose what's most often used . Volume selection four times an hour user interface: Yeah but But  if it's usually plus or min above each other or next to each other on a normal remote . So not how much n not how often it's used , but marketing:  user interface: W what's what's usual or normal . industrial designer: user interface: I think it's it's a marketing: I think because I have two televisions at home . user interface: I think the the the volume was usually  above each other , because you go higher and down . user interface: And the the pay the the the program is next to each other , because you would go further and back . industrial designer: user interface: That's how it's is usually when I look here marketing: True . project manager: Yeah well I think we have we don't have to decide about that now how where we will put the buttons user interface: I don't know . user interface: This concept is in the actual design , but you should know where you would place a industrial designer: Okay , well le Yeah . user interface: And the speech  shall we implement that ? Or  project manager: Yeah well we just heard about the new  technology , huh ? industrial designer: Technologies ,  . marketing: Yeah I think it's it's easy for that , where are you , but then it says I'm here . user interface: You could if you do it like this you could put it in a corner or something . industrial designer: because a lotta you can make a very sensitive microphone , so it makes it possible to  just put it arou  underneath it or on the on the bottom of the  remote . project manager: Yeah maybe at the bottom where you can can hel hold it with you hand that there's also a microphone  user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: But that's not import I think that's not im very important project manager: Yeah , yeah . industrial designer: Ah okay , sure , okay , user interface: Right ? industrial designer: well tha marketing:  I think where it isn't seen industrial designer: Underneath ? Indeed . project manager: maybe just in the the spot you just pointed out marketing: I i between the round of the R_ . project manager: because I think it should be in a in an important position where people can see it , marketing: Yeah . project manager: because it is the the unique  idea of our remote , huh , the the speech control . project manager: Well maybe where the one hand industrial designer: Yeah but it doesn't makes it  any more fancy because you get to see  user interface: Yeah actually it does because it you can you can find it better if you use it . project manager: But are we talking about the button , or about the microphone ? user interface: About a microphone , project manager: Yeah because a microphone is very small thing , user interface: there is no button . project manager: but you can make it look like it's big so as its its really an important function of the remote . Yeah , well we already s discussed that , huh , the the L_C_D_ industrial designer: The L_C_D_ yeah , project manager: and user interface: Yeah . industrial designer:  supplements well the supplement is to marketing: I think I thought the , like you said , like scroll next to the remote isn't that handy . marketing: I think it's better to just up what you'd like to do on the screen . If you want to go back you have to back button go back , industrial designer: user interface: Yeah . marketing: if you want to choose audio settings you press audio settings and it goes to that s sub-menu . user interface: Or at least Yeah I don't know if it's really the scroll , but the menu they like most , and I think you can never get through a menu great with a scroll  industrial designer: Fast , yeah . So if you've got a settings , if you marketing: Yeah I think it is is faster . Becau I think the scroll's easier if you have a lot of options , industrial designer: Yes . marketing: but if you don't have a lot of option then user interface: But you have it's f  industrial designer: You have a lot of options , user interface: we have five or four or something . industrial designer: because when you use Yeah you get w when you use  the settings menu for example to look up some   some channels on your  on your television , you should scroll scroll down  on a menu which probably does not fit on your screen . project manager: And I think I would it would make even more fancy because you have another interesting thing on the side industrial designer: Yeah , yeah . No , colours are clear , project manager: Everybody think they can can marketing: shape is clear , material is clear . industrial designer: Okay , what's the standard colour ? project manager: work for that ? marketing: And a standard , project manager: Is there a standard colour ? marketing: yeah we don't industrial designer: I I marketing: no we have different colour . industrial designer: You got you got different colours , marketing: How many colours are we going to user interface: You should you should have a black one industrial designer: but you should have a standard colour . industrial designer: Black ? With the with the yellow  user interface: But if you want to be different , then  marketing: Dark grey , something like this this colour or something . project manager: silver is new but also traditional , so  marketing: I think we have silver , black and between those is like I dunno s five colours between them or something . project manager: Yeah w what about a yellow thing ,  it industrial designer: Yeah y I think it's better to marketing: Yeah yeah yeah it'll be a banana yellow , we have . project manager: Yeah I would think about colours like  red , yellow , green , blue , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: just marketing: The fruity colours and the autumn colours , like red and brown , dark red and brown . project manager: Okay , so user interface: And and do we have to have a normal black one , or  project manager: Who's pinging ? user interface: Is it project manager: You are pingin marketing: No . project manager: Okay , so  that wraps it up ? Everybody knows  what to do ? user interface: Yeah . user interface: Well I don't know what to do , industrial designer: Well not what to do . project manager: and especially notice that  the Industrial Designer and the User Interface Designer are going to work together on a prototype drawing on a smart board , user interface: Ooh . marketing: S project manager: and of course to all four of us  specific instructions will be emailed by our personal coach . user interface: But do we have to We'll work together , but do we have to stay here , or do we project manager: Well I I'd say just wait  for email and  find out 