Who starts ? project manager: Well I'll  start just with another presentation , so then we can  look at th at the agenda  for this meeting . project manager: Well  in we'll  just have a look at the at the notes from the previous meeting , what we  thought we had dec decided . Y you also have  received that mail , the new project requirements from our bosses ? industrial designer: No . project manager: Well I think we should show them before your presentations , because it's not really  smart  to  to include some things  we can't , because of the new requirements . project manager: We have to deb we have to decide it in this meeting what our function will be . So we said that  we have to merge the strong points from our  competitors , and  look at their  remote controls . project manager: We should make it  compatible with our new D_V_D_ and other releases we have , our technical releases . And  well they can have two functions , because  you have a D_V_D_ and a television . industrial designer: marketing: project manager: Yeah well that wa It's just thirty minutes ago , user interface: project manager: so it's not quite  But well I have to do it . project manager: The materials  well should be hard plastic with rubber from , and  well the labelling of the buttons should be indestructible . industrial designer: I I disagree , but  it's not  t it's not my place to disagree I guess . project manager: Well the second is a bit sh pity because we just said we wanted to d include the D_V_D_ user interface: Oh . project manager: and they don't want it , because of our time we have for this project . project manager: So that's a shame , because  especially for the third requirement we want to reach people under the thirty years .  well it's a bit pity because it's just those people want to have  one remote control for all those technical devices they can  reach it . user interface: project manager: Well and  our corporate image should stay rec recognisable in our products . So  we have to  use  maybe a slogan , maybe a colour , and  Yeah well  on our remote controls the design has to be  , well as we already said a actually ,  familiar . project manager: So maybe that's a slogan we can put  somewhere on our remote control or something . project manager: Oh you have to start ? I didn't see anything about  who had to start . marketing: I I just have to  to think which file's mine , user interface: marketing: 'cause I was  bit in a hurry .  next sheet ?  at first I tell you something about what people dislike about the current  controls , because it's  a smart thing to exclude those things .  They also say , that's about  I thought it was fifty per cent ,  that more money will be spent on  better looking controls . So it's really important to make the the buttons for the common  tasks kind of big or kind of  flashy . Thus it might be  might be smart to make a a big  zapping button or something in the middle , so you can reach it with your thumb . industrial designer: project manager: marketing: So it might be sensible to make some kind of a button on your television , that's your  your control beeps or something , that you can find this very easily . marketing: 'Cause it's  a big I think fifty per cent of the users loses his its control , within the same room . industrial designer: Oh ? project manager: It should actually  It should actually be loose from the television , user interface: Yeah . So if you deliver a small  click-on device that you can put on your television , that bleeps to your remote control , everyone can use it . marketing: Yeah but what if you lose your click-on device ? project manager: No you can click it on your television . marketing: Yeah but if someone d somebody else uses it in ano other room or something ? project manager: Yeah in another room , yeah . marketing: Nee but it it specifically says it's  the the control is lost in the same room . marketing: So Well a beeping device would be project manager: Well we'll have a look at it , yeah . So the the learning curve should be very short  for the dumbest people should be able to use it . user interface: industrial designer: I think our  user  expert should also consider manual a manual for the remote , of course . industrial designer: users to  add one ? Do you think ? user interface: I don't think marketing: I think you should put more time in the in the design of  pick up and use , than a manual . Yes you should You should could take a look at it and and and know how it how it's supposed to work . industrial designer: Well maybe for the If you don't recognise a button who d who d who do I call  wh when I don't know it ? marketing: Alright . But  the designer should  take it  should  Wie zeg ik dat ? Yeah , consider the consequences of using your remote .  , we're Like the requirements said , we're gonna specify of we're gonna target a younger audience .  research shows that they like to have a little L_C_D_ screen on their on their  zapping  device .  I thought it was the age between sixteen and twenty , ninety nine per cent of  the people like that . project manager: Well marketing: So it's very important we should definitely have that in our  designs . project manager: Well with twelve Euro fifty as production cost , we can't  afford an L_C_D_  industrial designer: It's going to be expensive . marketing: So if we want to s If we have a big If we make lots of  of the stuff , maybe we can  buy it very cheap , I dunno . project manager: Yeah well  it's your your task to  look into the costs  of those  industrial designer: We'll think abo we'll think marketing: Yeah , I don't know . project manager: It's not yet a standard  development  those so user interface: No and we have customers in multiple  countries I think . project manager: We sh marketing: Well I do think L_C_D_ is more reachable than the speech recognition . Okay , how do you enlarge it , so that you can have the project manager: F_ five . industrial designer:  well  I think it's important  for you to realise the basic function of a remote control . industrial designer: And I then can select I can select on the dings It goes to the next page . You have  basically  the energy , the power of the of the remote control ,  and the sender , w which is the LED , the the the the the the the the the bulb that sends the the infrared beam to the , no , to the set . user interface: industrial designer: And the the user interface sends  the the different signals of the different buttons to the chip , and the chip  sends it to the LED , and the LED sends it to the receiver . marketing: industrial designer:  well I have   put it in a in in in a a couple of basic steps . project manager: industrial designer: The chip  produces Morse code ,  a specific code to indicate that specific button that is pressed , of course . And it uses transistors in the in the remote control to amplify and to send  that signal again to the to the LED , which is the bulb , of course . project manager: industrial designer: Now the LED produces an infrared beam and signals the , well it's  very simple , and signals the  signals to the sensor on the T_V_ set , project manager: Yeah . marketing: industrial designer: and the T_V_ set  also recognises the the the signal , and performs the assigned task . project manager: So it is also why we have to have a button that says  I'm now busy with a D_V_D_  if we had done that . And  if we if we're going to add an  an  L_C_D_ screen to it , it  won't look anything like this , but This is very basic  basically the the shape of  of a remote control . It has  very little buttons and user interface: industrial designer: But it it  it's it's quite  Yeah , you can easily recognise the buttons . So we have to  change a little bit  to that ,  so that  it becomes more user-friendly , and that  problems like  R_S_I_ and  those kinds of thing don't don't oc don't occur . marketing: But I think it's very important to make  the power , channel and volume buttons  near to the thumb , so you can't have R_S_I_  consequences . industrial designer: Yeah , because they are the the most important buttons and you can immediately marketing: Right . project manager: Well but but user interface: You can also like industrial designer: You don't have to look and and search for them . project manager: if you have  the most used buttons all in one place , and you keep making the same  well moves . project manager: But if y if you would put it at a different place , then you have to move your hands , user interface: project manager: and that's on of the things about R_S_I_ . marketing: We project manager: No but the most important buttons m maybe you can just put them a bit apart so you would reject R_ R_S_I_ R_S_I_ . And user interface: Maybe you can make , for for channel changing , two little buttons on the side of the remote , so you can just do like this . Like some  little  Gameboy things or some project manager: Yes I've saw that on m on mi mobile telephones they also have  those buttons . marketing: But is that is that useable ? user interface:  ? marketing: Do people ,  when they pick up a remote , know that they have to do that ? project manager: user interface: Well marketing: It's a f it's a new feature , project manager: Well it it's industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: Yeah alright , but project manager: Well also i if someone puts picks up his  remote user interface: Yeah , but if you s say them up and down , they they'll understand it , I think . If someone puts up i  picks up his remote , and he picks up it he he touches the side then he's a already on the next channel . industrial designer: But in e in any case the the basic function should be  indeed , and as you say at the thumb . industrial designer: I think that's a good idea , and  and that the less important  buttons , like the the the different channels ,  the numbers one two three four five as well , should be  yeah well not in reach , because  they don't use it  all the time . industrial designer: And I have some pictures of the inside workings , but  I don't want to get too technical , project manager: Oh I had to delete this , but I had to make a schematic  of the of the new marketing: Alright . industrial designer: But I had too too little time , marketing: industrial designer: but  don't  don't look at it please . project manager: Well then we have still the time , so But we do have to come to a decision , right later on . project manager: user interface: Well I thought  everybody on the website  would see the same thing , but obviously that's not the case . user interface: The the method ? Well I used my own experience with remotes , took a good l look  at the remotes on the corporate website , which are these two . user interface:  marketing: These are already in use ? user interface: Yes , these are from from another  manufacturer . user interface:  Well , I thought  that we  reduce the the option to control the D_V_D_ also , and teletext and that kind of stuff . user interface: So we can can  yeah customise the project manager: Well absolutely , but i th they all have to have something about  the recognition from our company . user interface: You can marketing: But it project manager: So if y if you make a a front with just a a tiger on it , then  our recognition is totally gone . marketing: Yeah , that's right user interface: Or you can you can can put the same symbol on on every remote . So the symbol's always on user interface: Yeah ? industrial designer: Yeah , so that you don't replace the symbol , yeah . Something like that , project manager: Or the th the the lowest part of the remote isn't changed by the front . I think  industrial designer: Mike ,  can you put  that picture from me on the in the Word documents file ? In Map ? user interface: Yeah , I will . project manager: Yeah ? marketing:  there are two target audi audiences , and we've  chose for the younger one . project manager: Well what if we  I at I at home have a remote that has  the most familiar  buttons on the top , and the bottom side of the front has a little clip , marketing: project manager: a f a little  You can click away and then you have f much more functions that most people don't use but s some do do . project manager: Well but because you say they their features are important , they want m  a lot , industrial designer: No   usually marketing: Yeah right . industrial designer: But project manager: but not user interface: Yeah , but what kind of features ? Like L_C_D_ screens and voice recognition . marketing: You see ? So we must build in something , or they will to  go to the concurrent . project manager: On  some  calculators you have lo those little little L_C_D_ th that you can click on or something , marketing: Right . project manager: Those kind of things ,  because you also have those  those program recognition for your V_ V_C_R_s . And  well if y if your remote picks that up also , you they can display which programme you're currently watching . So it it just signals the the different  sig  the different symbols on the screen you have , project manager: Yeah . industrial designer:  because if you change to s channel two you have two on the screen and two on your on your  on your L_C_D_ screen . It it could be such a little  th that you can click in and out and you and you have it . user interface: It will industrial designer: But should it  really be  clickable ,  project manager: Well maybe . industrial designer: But that's of course  a bit more  expensive than  the basic  calculator design , with the scrolling text and that kind of thing . project manager: Well I think it's you got It just means it's a script that's  keeps it  rolling , marketing: Well it's just one script . project manager: and it's not  That's five minutes off  implementing time I think  marketing: Yeah , five minutes of ja ja for programming . marketing: Alright , we go with the L_C_D_ screen ? project manager:  well I think so , yes . Right , I don't know if I can find that , but project manager: We're g No but we're we'll have to look into that . user interface: Or maybe you will get that information  project manager:  we can use this board again , I think . user interface: At the top or at the bottom ? industrial designer: The L_C_D_ screen alright but we should start with the power button ? marketing: I think the top is more  project manager: Yeah . industrial designer:  user interface: Yeah but marketing: When you s How do you zap ? project manager: marketing: You just sit in your chair ? project manager: industrial designer: Huh ? user interface: Yeah but with with the L_C_D_ screen on the top it gets a bit unnatural . industrial designer: And then  marketing: We'll draw two , and then we'll see  industrial designer: Maybe we should  centralise the discussion here . I dunno what  you were talking about but marketing: No industrial designer: we are busy with something . He thinks it's better to put the L_C_D_ at the bottom , and I think it's better at the top . Why do you think it's better at the bottom ? user interface:  well because most  remotes have  some space left at the bottom , and that way you can keep the shape recognisable for everybody . marketing: But your user interface: I c industrial designer: But you just can put  the the the the the whole interface a bit down , so that there's room for the for the interface . user interface: Well I d I think that's that's ugly but marketing: The the ticker The L_C_D_ is like like small . But project manager: Well I th I think Mike Mike has a point , user interface: I th industrial designer: And and we can project manager: because  when when  when I use a remote I l I hate the buttons but buttons at the at the bottom . project manager: So when I u when I have to have an L_C_D_ s scr window marketing: Yeah right . marketing: We industrial designer: It looks more like a calculator to people , if you have the l the the the thing on top . user interface: Yeah you don't want project manager: We don't want them to look like a calculator . project manager: We want to look it like our original but familiar industrial designer: Yeah w well , user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: but  you don't have to throw   important aspe important aspect like familiarity  completely away , marketing: High-tech . project manager: Yea industrial designer:  because I think it's  marketing: project manager: Maybe a bic  better  white  We White ? industrial designer: I think it's still important to have it at the top , marketing: Width .  format yeah format ? Line width ? Width ? industrial designer: because it's  it's more familiar that way . Well project manager: Well  let's  talk about that later  industrial designer: Maybe you should another pen . marketing: I think we have  a few functions , and we can put  the L_C_D_ above it , and still have lots of room at the bottom , where you can put your hand . user interface: At the bottom ? industrial designer: Well I'm the I I'm the designer , so  user interface: In a few minutes marketing: At the bot user interface: Oh yeah , oh yeah , I totally agree . project manager: Well but  what what if we we first decide the different functions , user interface: He's the boss . marketing: And moreover I think that you two should be  come to consensus about the L_C_D_ s . industrial designer: While you have to agree , I can say it's like this and you must agree . project manager: We have a power button , setting buttons , L_C_D_ window , the number buttons user interface: The ten numbers ? Yeah ? industrial designer: Channel , yeah . user interface: I think we we should use something like this  to  The the channel up and channel down button ? Yeah , in circle , you know ? project manager: Yes . project manager: Well h ho industrial designer: But th th on this remote th these controls are for something else , a D_V_D_ player or something . They are for some  video  user interface: Yes , as I already said , we could drop some of these buttons . When when you  put them all in the same place , the most used buttons , you're doing the same thing all the time , project manager: marketing: and that's just what R_S_I_'s all about . industrial designer: Yeah , it's it's also not good to completely stay in one position constantly with one hand . project manager: That's what I always do , industrial designer: Y project manager: because all my i important buttons are the same place . project manager: Yes ? user interface: Yeah but people don't like it when their buttons are all over the place . industrial designer: No but now y W would we have to choose a way in middle ? marketing: Frequency of  button use . marketing: So the the channel  channel buttons should be far far apart , I think , up and down . project manager: Up and down far apart from each other ? industrial designer: Far apart ? marketing: You thinking  about R_S_I_ ? user interface: Yeah but project manager: Well not too much . industrial designer: marketing: Nei not too much , but user interface: The other the other two  frustrations are far more important . So industrial designer: I think you can have the two buttons of up and down close together , but you don't have  have to have volume control and and zapping button close together . project manager: Well for example the power button , you can user interface: Well they are used four times an hour , so project manager: If someone is constantly z zapping , it's not going to miss , that it that the power button is not right beside it . project manager: The power button can  be   user interface: Power bu button should be left at the top . marketing: The most important things we have to  project manager:  how are we going to do it with those numbers ? industrial designer: C c can you make you make We can use  the drawing board now , I think .  it it doesn't work well but But it it would be pretty pretty  nice if we could just draw a simple thing . project manager: Well user interface: Well consensus ,  We we can put it in the middle , so project manager: Well it's a bit hard , because we are going to be  individually . We're No project manager: That's a bit  marketing: We're deciding now , so project manager: Yes . marketing: Top or bottom ? industrial designer: Well  yeah I I still think it's it's quite important though to  to have it at the top , so project manager: Yes it is . You say familiarity isn't important but project manager: Well what if we're going to now decide about the functions , and the design comes into the next round ? Plus the d th the design round is still to come huh ? marketing: Okay . industrial designer: As we we we we agreed , we do have a L_C_D_ . Are we going to  do it like  on Mike's screen with  one button that says I'm going to do a t two number digital ? user interface: No . project manager: How do you want it to do then ? user interface: Well just when you push a one one and industrial designer: There's one two three four five six six seven eight nine zero . user interface: No , if you On most T_V_s if you  press two numbers shortly after each other , d it industrial designer: Oh , like that . project manager: Okay  anyone any  oth other functionalities of our  remote ? industrial designer: I think these are the the most important functions . You do need them ? project manager: No , we'd  just said we didn't  marketing: Yeah , I know . project manager:  well because we can't integrate it with any other  remotes , all those buttons on those pictures are  irrelevant . marketing: project manager: We'll have  those  buttons about  And  the two important ones we're l f forgetting . project manager: Those two ? But it's just two , and we make a clip ? industrial designer:  just two just two under  under  marketing: project manager: Th that's a bit  waste . industrial designer: I I think  project manager: Your L_C_D_ screen is going to go . user interface: Or at industrial designer: But you you can put  two or three buttons under  another section . industrial designer: You can just put it somewhere project manager: Yeah industrial designer: They they aren't used much , not as much as those other , so you can put it somewhere user interface: Oh , they can be small or round like buttons . What do you think  those those buttons ? project manager: Well I think they should in an in an isolated part of the remote . Well any other  marketing: Well if you you take those th If you user interface: Why go to video ? project manager: Go to video , that's always on your remote control . marketing: Yeah , but you can z you can zap t you can you can zap to the video channel from zero to  industrial designer: The the video channel  ? user interface: That's just zero . user interface: Yeah , but you can can zap down marketing: Yeah , but when you zap down zero you get to A_V_ . user interface: I think go to video is an irrelevant button , but project manager: Th that's the button  No . industrial designer: But it's easy to go If you are at  at channel  fifty five and you want to  go immediately to the video channel , you do you have to push a to to get below zero . project manager: I I think that one button is  I use it  user interface: marketing: Yeah , but if we're choosing to  incorporate these buttons , you have to have  channel setting , if you wa if you have a new T_V_ . project manager: Yeah ? marketing: Right all th these  different buttons you have to project manager: These buttons , I don't have buttons for channel setting  especially on my remote . project manager: It's it's incorporated with p m plus and down ,  those user interface: Yeah well y you must have . user interface: Yeah you yeah you have one one button from s set frequency o or something , project manager: user interface: and then with plus and min minus you can  adjust the  marketing: Right . project manager: Ch ch industrial designer: Yeah to  oh yeah of course to configure the programme the Yeah . Oh the Okay button ? marketing:  project manager: Oh you always have in the centre an Okay button , for your menu . project manager: user interface: I think things like  contrast and brightness should be  in the menu , yeah . project manager: We're going to  go to our  rooms , and  we'll have to decide s things on our own I think . project manager: Well see you  user interface: I thought we'd  lunch  right now , or not ? project manager: W w we have lunchtime , by the way , now  so  industrial designer: Yeah this is this is your thing 