project manager: Yeah on your computer , or the industrial designer: But where ? project manager: What's the name ? industrial designer:    project manager: What's the name of it ? industrial designer: It was about the working of the remote control . I just had an half an hour j to study it user interface: industrial designer: and I don't get it . industrial designer: First  I will tell you something about the findings , what I discovered about the remote control .  then I'll have  some kind of map , and it's the top of the remote control . The remote control is a very difficult  thing to  to explain to just all of you wh who haven't seen a remote control  inside .  there's a lot of  plastic on it , marketing: industrial designer:  because its  not so expensive . And there are  a lot of  wires ,  which  connect the components in it , the battery , and there are  switches and things like that .  but we can also use it  a bleep like something , when the battery's empty , then there is a bleep . And also the bleep , when what I told you about  when you lost it , and you push a button , and then you hear bleep bleep , and we will find it . Why ? industrial designer: If we w if we use only just one  small pen-light , then it will be cheaper than when we use two . When you use it on the television , you've you need the television , wh which can use it . But  I think this our remote control is for the televisions we  we sell in our company ? project manager: Okay . industrial designer: Or is it also for other company  for other televisions ? project manager: I think we have to use it also on other televisions though . And on the other tele televisions , you can also use it , but then we won't use the project manager: Yeah but I don't I think it They are two different things though . But  , to have a trendy remote control , we can also  make something like the Nokia  mobile phones . marketing: Will this will this add to the cost ? industrial designer:  then it won't be  will have just one cover on the  original one . D does it make it more difficult to design ? industrial designer: I think it will be a little more difficult , but not too much . project manager: industrial designer: Yeah but then we'll have to to just  put five covers on it , and see if it works . project manager: Yeah but are their profits bigger than their cost ? industrial designer:  a p a a cover made in  in China , it it won't be I guess so expensive I think . I don't think When you have a remote control , do you change the cover ? Would you change the cover ? industrial designer: Maybe . industrial designer: But maybe I think trendy people or like children where you can paint on it , and  the the children think , oh this is my remote control ,  I made a picture on it . And the other people ? What do you think about it ? marketing:  user interface: Yeah it's a good idea . But If if it Yeah , I don't I'm not sure if it will make profit enough to  industrial designer: Okay . industrial designer: user interface:  I thought the the the technical function design was  to  for a remote control to to to have some influence on the T_V_ set . And  and and and well basic  operations like on and off , and  switching channels , and  and maybe  teletext or something like that . But  shall we make a basic remote control ,  just  swapping channels and volume and  power button and well nothing much more .  any ideas about that ? Basic or multifunctional ? project manager: We'll got back on that later . project manager: industrial designer: user interface: marketing: So So I'm  gonna have a presentation about  the market , about  yeah what people think .  among them design ,  d d how d did they like the use of it ,  what frustrations they had while using remote controls . Which  buttons find users  very important and which which not ? And how much would they use them ? Well  the most used button is the channel selection .  not important they found the audio ,  that's not the volume but  specific the the pitch , or the left or right . And to come back on the the swapping  things ,  I don't think  , I I think the younger will be most interest in it . If you have an L_C_D_ on the remote control , what would you think of it . Now if we look back at this graph , we can see that among the first group is about  sixty percent .  of course n  saying we aim at the young group doesn't say that old people won't buy it . So if you make a remote control that is  very easy to use , that's especially aimed at this group , even  the young group will also be more interested . So  you don't have to have a lot of audio options , or screen options to change the brightness . One thing I did not say I think , is that a lot of users also said then I would  buy a good looking  remote control if there will be one . industrial designer: If we aim for the younger people ,  and there will be  a lot of features like L_C_D_ or the the the speech  f recognising ,  the cost will be a lot of h  a lot higher . user interface: And I don't  I don't think twenty five Euros for a remote is really cheap or something .  not everyone  who is looking T_V_ can go to internet when they want to see the latest news . marketing: project manager: So what controls do we need ? Who first ? user interface: Well a power button ? marketing: project manager: Okay . Do we make a menu ? project manager: Menu ?  yes the n newer televisions ha do have menus . project manager: And Hello ? That's ch marketing: I think it will be  q quite easy to use , to have   four arrows . And if you press the menu button you get into the menu , and you can use the same buttons . project manager: On the L_C_D_ screen , you mean ? marketing:  well yeah that depends on if you have  the menu on the T_V_ . project manager: Think it's better to have it on the remote control , 'cause it it has to work on all televisions . But well if you aim at the younger market ,  a as they as  s  as we seen in the usability  lab ,  they will buy a nice looking  remote control . So if we have a L_C_D_ sh  screen , and  not too many buttons , I think that will incre   even when it's a bit more cost , it will still sell . industrial designer: And  we don't yet have to decide what the remote control would look like ? Or project manager: No that's for the next phase 