project manager: Then  I guess that's your bit ? I I didn't s see anything about it , marketing: Yeah . marketing: project manager: I'll show you how we're going to do with financing this  design . project manager: Well the finance  we'll do later , so  firstly  I'll show you the notes . project manager: Well  user interface: marketing: project manager: We ge we went through the agenda , industrial designer: project manager: and well we had some  some presentations from you three . marketing: industrial designer:  it's pretty  much  like  Mike draw  drew  the in the during the last meeting . industrial designer: and later we'll put out  more interesting covers with different patterns and pictures and everything . You can see it also on the on the on the side view , that only this part is the front , and the rest of it , the under  the under side  of it , yeah , the back side and the lower part of the front is of course titanium made of titanium , and has the titanium colour of course , the look . industrial designer:  which is  made  which is also part of the back , part of the titanium  titanium part . user interface: Yeah , it's a double R_ , but industrial designer: Yeah ? user interface: It's a double R_ . industrial designer:   it's difficult to draw so small , but it's our double R_  logo is in there .  it's difficult to draw again the little oval or round I think oval will be better for the for the d for the different  channel buttons . And then we have the m The m user interface: Channel up and volume ? industrial designer: Yeah the the con the the the , yeah , the t volume and the channel controls  in the middle here .   with kind of arrow shapes , which makes it also a bit more exciting than basic round or    square buttons . Oh nei we  the Okay button's here in the middle of the of the operators , of the channel and  volume  changers . project manager: Well if I look at it , the side the side view user interface: Well , at the back industrial designer: Maybe we maybe we should finish first  our talk user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: Maybe I I don't want to I don't want to suppress you but n I'll  finish this  quick . project manager: industrial designer:  okay I've had everything I guess on the front ? user interface: No the back . user interface: No I don't think And the industrial designer: And the company slogan , we thought in a kind of arc shape  above the logo . industrial designer: and project manager: W user interface: And about the side view  This the front won't be as thick , industrial designer: user interface: but again th the the drawing technique makes it very difficult to to really  project manager: Well I see , but industrial designer: Oh and  before I forget . industrial designer: And you can record it  using , yeah , the the the back of the f w device . marketing: project manager: When I look at  when I look at this side view , I think w when I have that in my hand , it's terrible .  ? project manager: If if you look if if this this is thick , and this is thin , th th then it that it lies over your hands . But industrial designer: Why ? Well it fits  it it it it fits the hand , user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: mean  the the the the project manager: Well what what what I what I agree is that when  when  you have such of  an arc in the middle , so that the the a the ends and the fronts is a bit thicker , so th then it falls over your hands . user interface: If y If you handle a remote , you you usually don't have your hand straight like this . H What do you suggest  we do ? This was Mike's prototype , project manager: Well  marketing: industrial designer: and y you seemed to agreed on it . project manager: Well the sides I haven't seen yet ,  ? industrial designer: But now you have a totally different . industrial designer: The size ? Yeah well the size doesn't really matter w  project manager: They the the the the the side view , industrial designer: Side ?  oh the side ? project manager: we didn't  industrial designer: W we we he drew the s the side , user interface: Yeah yeah . user interface: Yeah you you don't you don't grab it , industrial designer: You're not holding it like this or something . user interface: you you industrial designer: You , yeah , y How do you call it ? Yeah . user interface: industrial designer: You you you're using buttons this way , or if you're right-handed , this way . industrial designer: And maybe you can you can grab it a bit higher , marketing: Yeah , I agree on this . That's not  the point user interface: No but but industrial designer: Well the the Well that's a reason to to to put the L_C_D_ screen  of course on the upper side , but user interface: Well f for as far as I can see , three of us agree project manager: Yeah well user interface: and only Nils project manager:  I think  if you t if you three  agree then then that's it . industrial designer: But  are d Can you live with it ?  project manager: Alright , if you think that that's the way it should user interface: Yeah ? industrial designer: Y Yeah , y y y y you said it was totally  unusable . project manager: No No , industrial designer: But do you project manager: when I I my personal taste is that I want it to fall over my hands with a thick But In the market  industrial designer: But d you don't think this is completely unusable I guess . industrial designer: Not totally , well project manager: For me , I I wouldn't buy it . project manager: Yeah , we don't know , industrial designer: Maybe a thousand people , project manager: but that's  that's that's that's more market research . user interface: industrial designer:  any other suggestions ? project manager: No , I think it's great . You can do the evaluation  criteria on this ? user interface: industrial designer: You're very personal again . industrial designer: project manager: marketing: So I made a I made a few questions on the hand of   the impor most important requirements and trends . marketing: I  think you have all seen  this kind of evaluation , so  I don't have to explain it .  the first question is ,  is the device good-looking ? Because normal p  most people thought that  earlier devices were ugly ugly . So what do we think ? industrial designer: Well d we designed it , so of course we are very user interface:  . project manager: To the customers ? industrial designer: So and we ha we have answer now ? project manager: To potential customers who have to take this questionnaire ? industrial designer: Yeah . We designed it to be good-looking , so industrial designer: I Yeah , I think it marketing: Yeah , but  , you know We dis we di we designed it to be perfect . Easy to find t industrial designer: Well l well let's start with the beginning , just one by one .  is it good-looking ? industrial designer: Well , I guess  I think  it's  it's it's  pointed towards the youth of course ,  if you look at the design and and the colours and everything .  it's it's not f a device that marketing: The titanium might be  f for older people . industrial designer: Yeah , that's that's  for older people , it's it's more that classical look . I think Yeah they like black of course , but I think they'll  they they think  the the titanium look of it is also  I think it's also good for them , so I think we both  have  consider considered  the youth and also a bit older people . user interface: I think we shouldn't discuss any points points that long , because I don't know how how many points there are but  project manager: No . user interface: no it's  marketing: Easy to change channels ? project manager: No , not false . industrial designer: D we d we don't we don't have  that s user interface: Well it's easier to find than a a normal black one or something , project manager: Well six then . industrial designer: Well we don't have the device that beeps  when you lost it or so , project manager: Are the functions easy to learn ? industrial designer: but   project manager: Well w I we do want we have a l f f less of an user interface: We have so few functions , so Yeah . project manager: And the device R_S_I_ sensitive ? user interface: Well , I should I think two , project manager: Yeah . Two ? industrial designer:  ? project manager: Yeah , but just do some We we marketing: Yeah project manager: I th I th I think this is too time consuming . industrial designer: Are we take too much time ? project manager:  not not towards you , marketing: Yeah , I agree . marketing: Right , R_ R_S_I_ sensitive ? R_S_I_ sensitive ? project manager:  well well a bit , so four . project manager: Is the device easy to use ? user interface: The project manager: Yes we have not many buttons . project manager: Are the trends about fruit and vegetables implemented ? user interface: T industrial designer: F project manager: Well in our covers , in our fronts . industrial designer: Four ? marketing: If you look at this industrial designer: Well , it doesn't really resemble any fruit ,  that's true . project manager: industrial designer: But but we have the the the the the sparkly fruity colours of course . user interface: This is the last meeting ? project manager: Yes , but we we have to design much more , user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: The what ? project manager: The sample speaker , industrial designer: The marketing: Out . marketing: Batteries are  quite project manager: L_C_ three ? Yeah hand dynamo ? Y t come on , marketing:  no , no no no . user interface: Well well why why why should we use a advanced chip ? industrial designer: Because  project manager: Well be for the L_C_D_  you had said . user interface: Why not ? industrial designer: Because  that  y project manager: Well what what's the difference between simple and regular ? industrial designer: because my information says it . project manager: What's the difference between a simple and a regular chip ? industrial designer: Huh ? user interface: Yeah . project manager: And simple ? industrial designer:  well yeah I I read something about it , but user interface: Simple . So Well you have to use the advanced chip , if you have the L_C_D_ screen . user interface: We we we Why ? project manager: user interface: We have very little options furthermore , for the project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: But if you have a regular chip , you can't have the L_C_D_ screen .  project manager: Well , we could say , well this special colour , that isn't that that isn't there , marketing: No project manager: because the the fronts they will buy it . industrial designer:  it d it doesn't marketing: No , that's n It's not relevant . marketing: No , Then the whole concept is  industrial designer: Yeah , I know but that's what my information says . user interface: You you we have an advanced chip-on-print , industrial designer: user interface: and we have an L_C_ display . industrial designer: Well  and what do they mean with curves  again ? Because we you have uncurved project manager: Well I I did single curve to Well you said s double curved , user interface: I ? project manager:  he , user interface: ? project manager: because  I thought it's a b a bit cheaper already . industrial designer: Well marketing: No industrial designer: But what what did what do n marketing: no no no . project manager: But industrial designer: Sorry , but What do they mean with the curves ? project manager: Curved ? industrial designer: Is th Is this a curve ? project manager: Yes , that's curved . Come on , if we if we if we make this fifty million , they won't hesitate to  congratulate us , so  user interface: industrial designer: marketing: If if you make people brand-aware , they are willing to pay more . industrial designer: But  I user interface: Yeah or we could replace it marketing: If you if you make it cool to have project manager: By the way , we also have this one . industrial designer: Hey but  I think you'll agree that  that we that now we have this  screen , it's it's very  not practical to ha to consider this after we have designed the entire thing . marketing: industrial designer: Well that's pretty  l user interface: Why why don't we replace the titanium with  plastic coloured titanium , marketing: That is pretty stupid . Well user interface:  titanium-coloured plastic ? project manager: Who ? marketing: project manager: You want to dump the titanium ? user interface: Yeah well if we  we we have to get cheaper . industrial designer: I think project manager: Th then you have a ugly , stupid , l ugly looking , dumb remote that that no-one would buy . industrial designer: I think the titanium just  provided the the tough look and the and the marketing: Y project manager: Yes . project manager: and th that it is strong , and industrial designer: And also the the older people will like it because of that . industrial designer: Alright it's not our target audience , but it's it's useful if it's  important for old people . project manager: We still we had to focus to get more people from the younger group , industrial designer: Yeah . But I think you could better change  titanium to hard a hard kind of plastic looking like titanium than lose the L_C_D_ screen . project manager: I'll put in the report we that we think that fourteen point one is the l m lowest price you can make a remote for that's trendy d these days . project manager: Titanium , I thi I think this this is this is e really good re remote . But user interface: industrial designer: Yeah this is good , marketing: Osl industrial designer: but it it's not good enough . project manager: Ah those those account managers , what do th d what do they know ? user interface: Well project manager: Come on . user interface: industrial designer: What do we Well what do we know ? All we want is a is a fancy design but we don't really consider the costs . So marketing: So s If you don't have the money , you can't make it . industrial designer: And on plastic times two and then we  are there ? project manager: Well , no it's just  all plastic . W marketing: project manager: What do we want , guys ? industrial designer: I want gold plating . user interface: Because you y have that curve industrial designer: We have we have to  fill user interface: and you have that curve . project manager: Finance ? user interface: this this ain't titanium , but it looks like it . project manager: Well , guys ? industrial designer: We get more salary , if we make if cheaper than twelve  twelve and a half . project manager: Guys ? user interface: project manager: We have to dump our titanium , marketing: Shoot . project manager: and we'll hate the managers for that , but now we're going to evaluate our project , of  project , user interface: industrial designer: Objection . Well , satisfaction on for example , are we satisfactory about our creativity ? industrial designer: Well I can't get no satisfaction , but  marketing: project manager: user interface: industrial designer: I think it's  Well in in if we consider the costs then this is the best , yeah . user interface: project manager: I think it's terrible that we got  those costs at the last moment . But that that that's that , yeah that's a reason , industrial designer: Its it's  ridiculous actually , but user interface: And  unrealistic . We had  nice design , and then you get the cost , and you had to dump all your creativity . project manager: I al I I've  filled that in in a the questionnaires  each time , so user interface: marketing: Yeah yeah . user interface: project manager: But o alright , the teamwork ? industrial designer: Well  they they didn't think of the requirements . project manager: No they said , oh we won't d  we won't  use teletext ,  we won't use the D_V_D_ . project manager:  well what do you , what did you think about the SMARTboard ? industrial designer: It was a complete disaster . Yeah ? industrial designer: No  it it it  it is  project manager: Well user interface: No , that's a SMARTboard , and that's a digital pen . marketing: This this this isn't a SMARTboard , right ? project manager: Well it's both a SMARTboard . marketing: You u you use the project manager: It's both a SMARTboard , but this one is used for a desktop , and that one is used to to draw . But project manager: Well , wi w which one did you like ? user interface: industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: Well I didn't use  marketing: Yeah , but I think there's a big distinction between the these th project manager: We're now talking about the SMARTboards . user interface: Well we we used that one , industrial designer: Nei It it's much m user interface: and we needed it . user interface: Yeah alright , but project manager: Or install a laptop to a beamer , or have this one standing here in an I I like it . project manager: And  the digi the digital pen ? Did  did you like that one ? industrial designer: I I didn't use it . project manager: I used it  just to check it out , but  industrial designer: That's the marketing: Yeah . project manager: You you can't send that to anyone , because you you've scrabbled something on a page for yourself , user interface: marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: So what's the what's the th what's the point of importing it into project manager: It's , no , it it's useless . industrial designer:   you can bring your paperwork along and p Well of course if you have a lot of paper project manager: But marketing: Yeah , it might be useful for drawings . industrial designer: If you've If you've project manager: But for notes , it i you you have to put that in a strict  you have to put a name , standard date , and all those things . So if you  were to write them down for yourself , and then put that in your computer , you still have to type it over to Word . user interface: industrial designer: project manager: So it doesn't d doesn't have any marketing: Yeah , right . industrial designer: But I think  d this option is only useful if you've got a lot of paperwork . industrial designer: Well did you really  Did you really take  take those in account ? I half of time I didn't notice they were there . project manager: Well w why not ?  etcetera We industrial designer: project manager: N new ideas found ? industrial designer: Right . user interface: project manager: What kind of ideas for n a future schedule What ? For future  meetings you have got ? industrial designer: marketing: user interface: Well I missed  the option to  to email , marketing: Communicate in between . project manager: But  two t But  th then you have to have a lot of drawings , because if I had a company and I'm going to  buy those expensive huge expensive  things , I and I have to w pay those  papers  that are expensive , I'm not going to  user interface: industrial designer: Well No marketing: For people who  sketch th the whole day , I can imagine that it's useful . project manager: Well th then still they they they should have a a nice graphics programme on the laptop . industrial designer: But it's still an expensive  expensive project manager: Because this is huge marketing: Well project manager:  this v very very  expensive paper . user interface: Well you you can't you can't draw on a laptop like you like you paint of or draw with your hand . industrial designer: Well and if marketing: Mouse is ju just isn't working if you're sketching . industrial designer: And but what if  maybe this this board  SMARTboard is malfunctioning or someone . But suppose it was working correctly , what  would it be useful then , if it wasn't off all the time ? A project manager: Well no . industrial designer: Really ? marketing: Yeah , but he's saying if it is correct , and you can draw very , yeah , very precise industrial designer: Anything you want . project manager: Well th th then still it's it's it's very expensive  towards a a just a green  school board . industrial designer: Well it isn't , but maybe that thing is  is marketing: Yeah , mu industrial designer: Yeah , board , a school board , yeah . user interface: Yeah , but but then you can  save it in instantly , and and and re-use it , and  industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: industrial designer: This  if it works correct , maybe this thing this thing is just malfunctioning . project manager: industrial designer: So  if we get in  if we get another one and you make sure it does work , project manager: Yep . project manager: Se user interface: Yeah , we can go to the bar and  with our newly earned money . But  industrial designer: Maybe till four o'clock or something ? marketing: industrial designer: Well dunno . project manager: Well yeah , it is a bit  Well we still have to make the end report and  all those things . project manager: I Di did you  save this one in the folder ? marketing: You better get started . industrial designer: They also want to see my cat and his rabbit , and  user interface: My big bird . project manager: marketing: project manager: Where is this ? marketing: industrial designer: Maybe the pen is just   broken and the board isn't . user interface: industrial designer: Who is she you're talking about ? project manager: She already knows . industrial designer: Because then we have to confront her with our user interface: So she can see we're ready . project manager: I'm going to resign after this project anyway , so marketing: Oh , that's just great 