user interface: project manager: It's important to place your laptop exactly on the marked spot over here . marketing: What ? user interface: No mouse needed ? marketing: I've got a touch-pad . marketing: Do you know how how I can wake it up ? user interface: A touch-pad ? marketing: No , my laptop . project manager: some of the oje objectives are that is has to be original , trendy , and user-friendly . You all received an email with a example of our explanation of what  the particular level of design  means to the different  functions , and  you p you probably read that already , so I don't have to tell you about that . project manager: Okay , first we're gonna   gonna try some different things with the tools we have over here , so you get acquainted with these    meeting tools . You can upload your  documents to that folder and then you can open them over here , so you can do your PowerPoint presentations on this screen .  , we're gonna skip through th user interface: Can we see the white-board on our laptops ? project manager: No , no . user interface: No , I saw I saw the file , the smart-board that X_B_K_ but project manager: Oh , no . Is is if it's mainly a thing for in the meeting , so I don't think it's I don't know if it's important .  , we well , we use the same file during  the whole day , and  you can make new sheets by  by pu puttin pressing on the blank button . And you can make new  fi  new blanks , and you can change  the line width and the colour of the pen by pressing on forward , which y you have to select pen format .  , every participant should draw his favourite animal and some of its favourite characteristics , user interface: industrial designer: project manager: on blank sheets with different colours , with different pen widths . And I like its overall  aggressive look and Well , that's what I like about  piranha .  , I don't know what my  favourite  animal is , marketing: user interface: but the easiest animal I can think is is a bird . project manager: marketing: user interface:  I will marketing: project manager: marketing: You know , I thought of that actually . project manager: user interface: Yeah , it's  the most simple  animal I know , I think . user interface: M marketing: I haven't got a favourite animal too , so user interface: Pictionary . user interface: industrial designer: Which is not as the case with  with bingwings and project manager: Well , you can have a piranha at home . industrial designer: It's not very  very good drawn , but you can see a cat from it . marketing: industrial designer: user interface: industrial designer: marketing: industrial designer: It's marketing: user interface: industrial designer: Ah , it's not scared . user interface: marketing: He's crying because it's ugl because of his ugliness . industrial designer: project manager: What do you like about it then ? marketing: industrial designer:  it's i most cats are small . Okay , user interface: marketing: project manager: and then we are  through the tool training , I guess . industrial designer: marketing: I wouldn't call it training , but project manager: Okay , this is  something about the project finance . user interface: project manager: The market range is international , so it's gonna be sold world-wide , and the production cost should be a maximum of twelve Euro fifty per remote control . project manager: Okay , we're now gonna discuss some stuff when well , we're gonna brainstorm about  what kind of kemoro romo remote control it's gonna be . Do you have  know what good experiences with remote controls ? Or do they annoy you sometimes ? industrial designer: Yes . project manager: Are they difficult to understand , or maybe they don't interact with different kind of  equipment very well ? user interface:  . marketing: I don't th I don't think the four of us got problems with remote controls , project manager: Yeah , okay . marketing: but if you see elderly people , all these buttons , and then they buy new T_V_ because their previous one was stolen or whatever . marketing: And then a totally different remote control with with different functions on different places , and half of the functions a are removed , or whatever . All th all the buttons which apply to the text functions in in one  project manager: Different functions of of  marketing: Well , one area or whatever , not like the button to enter text on top of the remote control and the button to  , yeah , to minimise it to this this or whatever o o other functions totally somewhere else . marketing: And same for the for the volume buttons and the the t project manager: And  , is it gonna be a remote control that's  what it can be used for different kind of equipment , like your T_V_ and your home stereo ? marketing: Well I was I was thinking  since a T_V_ is  mostly used together with a V_C_R_ or D_V_D_ player or recorder , and not with a stereo , I think it should be good to include functions for V_C_R_s and D_V_D_ players , recorders . But  , the D_V_D_ players and home cinema sets often double as stereo hi-fi sets probably . project manager: Oh , it is only for televis user interface: I thought it was only for television . So so we probably don't have to have to  have the functions for D_V_D_ player or V_C_R_ . marketing: Yes , it is only for television , but  project manager: So wha what What wha what  what document marketing: Well well we we're gonna brainstorm about that . project manager: But , where where did it  Where did you find that ? user interface: in the email . industrial designer: Yes , marketing: But I was thinking since it is useful with D_V_D_ project manager: Yeah , but most television remote controls support other functions as well . project manager: Okay ,  but  we've gonna put some a  is is it so user-friendliness , is a is a pri priority in this case , or user interface: True . project manager: Well , this the maybe is  some aspect of the  , or or some point at at which we can excel by making it very useful . project manager: That w Well , then you're you're the usability  man , so this  gonna be a very important task for you then . Well , other ideas ? How can we make it trendy or something ? Do  by just sh shape and the look of it ? industrial designer: to go with to go with fashion and project manager: Maybe a can opener underneath it ? user interface: For the bear . Or someth something special , like  M_P_ three player inside of it , or  user interface: I I  , no I think it project manager: Oh , well then the production costs are gonna be too high probably . user interface: I th I think yo we have to keep it simple , to get a whole market . Maybe with different type of fronts or  user interface: It's international , so we have to use a standard . project manager: Well , m has to be something spectacular or  one which makes it marketing: Well that's an idea of course , yeah . project manager: original , trendly , and user-friendly Well , we al also already talked about user-friendliness . project manager: No , well something trendy and original , well that that goes hand in hand I guess . 'Kay , so you the  technical part of the process is something you're gonna look after for , so you have to think about what kind of  equipment you want to  , you know , you want to manage with it . Well , and that's an important part for you then , with gogors regards to the user-friendly part of it . The the Industrial Designer will w or the working design , of course , we will  Already s said that . project manager: Oh , and what does it said ? marketing: And it said  five minutes , so we got four and a half . user interface: Oh , I don't project manager: W Okay , well  user interface: I didn't get a message . project manager: And  it's it's clear you can put the stuff in the project documents presentations . project manager: You can all Or we're all  marketing: Project joc project documents is for showing  on the white-board . project manager: or  or sh or should we  or is important that we leave at exact  industrial designer: No . project manager: user interface: I don't think Oh marketing: Yes ? project manager: Yes 