user interface: But  we don't  we don't  we do think it's  well what if with ease of use , w which prefers the which the the customer of the user prefers . And after a while they start to develop  some skills in the the voice recognition functions , and then they will not use this dial as often . industrial designer: They n they need to understand what  how to change channels and  change the volume , so it's easier for them project manager: Could could I see the scroll bar as  as as a sort of shortcut ? A a and the voice recognition as well , industrial designer: Yeah , maybe so . Yes , it's project manager: th maybe you could  could  industrial designer: Well , it's it's it's another approach , it's more that our  . And and the case is is rubber ? industrial designer: Yes , rubber ? project manager: And the buttons ? user interface: Plastic or rubber . project manager: and  the colouring ? industrial designer:  yellow with  project manager: with with grey or black . project manager: Okay , user interface: project manager: we'll we'll come to that later . industrial designer: But marketing: Well , you could use two of them to programme the  channels on the two channel button , industrial designer: Yes , but it marketing: 'cause you have to assign two channel new channels . industrial designer: Or not ? project manager: M m but maybe you do want a programme button to  for example activate the voice recognition , or train the voice voice recognition . project manager: Yeah al although by pressing the button for I n don't know two , three seconds , you could also say it you'd disable it with a little beep and and industrial designer: Yes . project manager: Okay , well marketing: So  project manager: the then we'll switch to my presentation . project manager: Yeah , it's it's w way above   above the the the twelve Euro fifty . user interface: Why does the price and and the s oh , one  exa project manager: Yeah , the the price , the the number of items and the the sum .  if you would user interface: And and does it project manager: if you look at the  w w w what we could do to make it more  to make it just between the twelve Euro fifty ,  then I did the following changes . Twelve Euro forty cents I came up with by leaving out the solar cells ,  by not using the voice recognition feature , industrial designer: project manager: I I guess if we leave the if we leave this one out ,  user interface: So the button we can use plastic . user interface: And the pla  And a plastic b just plastic buttons , a plas  instead of rubber . industrial designer: Well , b basically it when when this is our only option , we should even consider changing the casing , because I think there's very little added value in  an enhanced case with these dull functions . Maybe we should look at an  focus on another  industrial designer: So Type of m maybe another market segment . project manager: Yeah , m  maybe not not all that fancy , but just way way more easy    basic industrial designer: Yeah . Although I think we yeah , but we could still make  a remote control that ap   applies  more to young people  by giving it another colour already . project manager:  so it is possible to make   a device that attracts a little bit more to young people . industrial designer: Well , maybe it's good to do it anyway , because if we evaluate it , we we can also determine if our objectives are good . industrial designer: So project manager: Well industrial designer: Is it fancy ? project manager: I d it is it is marketing:  industrial designer: marketing: Yay . industrial designer:  I think  I think it would have been more fancy if we used the titanium housing the casing . It would be even more project manager: You like tita user interface: industrial designer: oh , you really like titanium .  user interface: project manager: Yeah , I know , marketing: Is it  project manager: but but it but that's fancy in the way   fancy has has a lot of industrial designer: It has to do with fashion , I guess . user interface: It's trendy trendy , fun industrial designer: So do marketing: And w user interface: yeah . user interface: It's not the ultimate  fancy two , but industrial designer: I think I th I think it would have been I would have think  it could have been more fancy by using the double-curved case . It would have been even more fancy , but we decided not to , because if we use a double-curved case , we could not use solar . user interface: Yeah , but that's sti that's  industrial designer: So user interface: Looking at the user  needs , we only  don't we don't have the double-curved case . marketing: Okay , and  was it innovative ? user interface: project manager: Well , marketing: project manager: with the voice recognition feature and  user interface: But that's not in it . It could have been a little bit more innovative u by using the kinetic  energy source , but it's it's way too marketing: Yeah , and  project manager: That would have been a thrill . industrial designer: yes , but marketing: So  also a  two ? industrial designer: I think  it's a two . industrial designer: marketing: user interface: Well yeah , the voice recognition of course is hard to learn , I think . When you have a more advanced , elaborate user , well , such a user really would like to explore all these additional functions . industrial designer: So  It's maybe it's not very  easy for user interface: Wouldn't give it more .  two or three ? Three ? Wha wh what would be your guess ?  ease of use  does not only apply to the most basic functions . You're right in that , but I I guess  an advanced user will will find the voice recognition function easy to use , project manager: Yeah . project manager: So I could make it e easy ? user interface: If you make it a four it will be three in general . Three ? marketing: Yeah , industrial designer: Two ? marketing: two , two , three project manager: No , user interface: And a three ? project manager: I haven't said anything yet . project manager: Okay , but if I would say a three , then it's six , and four is ten . industrial designer: That's not even project manager: Does it will so it will be a two point five . marketing: industrial designer: But that's not possible to fill in , project manager: Yes , it is . It's not about the content , it's about okay ,  is it easy to f Yeah , definitely . user interface: we haven't re  re  really worked it out , but you c you can you can just say find and he repeats find . user interface: Yeah , but that's the that's the the basic idea of the the speaker  industrial designer: Yes . Maybe you have to  programme it once , so to that l respond to  a certain word or a certain sentence , something like where are you , and then it will sing I'm here . marketing: project manager: Well , I  industrial designer: So , I th project manager: we should not  stay too long on this subject  because of the time , but I personally give it a one . There are cases  in which the outside casing is  can be  how d how do you prono is is moldable . user interface: Was it one of our options ? industrial designer: No , it's not one of our option , marketing: No .  project manager: No okay , but but user interface: So , in the in industrial designer: but when you look in the market , when you look marketing: this this was a most spongy option . industrial designer: but that's not that's not  what they are talking about , I think . user interface: But I think in this case in this case we've done the best we could . industrial designer: Yes , but it's not good enough , project manager: I'll give it a one . industrial designer: You take one ? What do you give it ? marketing: Well yeah , it depends , 'cause it's the most spongy we could project manager: Yeah , I know , but you have to name a fig  a number .  I'll I'll change it , I'll make it m my my mark will be a four . user interface: project manager: Well , Ruud , what what do you think about it ? marketing: Well , the basic layout doesn't offem offer much , but the voice recognition could add a lot . project manager: What what we didn't talk about is   user interface: Yeah , but it ha doesn't has the digits . I believe it's If you  ask yourself it offers enough features , I don't I don't think it is it has all the features  a normal remote has . Bec because you can  we didn't talk about it , but you do have  remote controls that are able to adapt another signal . project manager: you place a a regular  remote control in front of the other one , hit the one or the two or the three , whatever , and it r records the  the  the the signals . project manager: So you could    enter any comment you like , as long it's able to as long as our device is able to reproduce the infrared signal . But that that's its power , I guess , because  a regular programmable  remote control contains , well ,  really a lot of buttons . marketing:  I think think a one , 'cause v with a voice recognition you could add anything you want , so that's like  industrial designer: Yes . I I've I think we've  succe succeed in in developing a product that's actually quite good , but not for this kind of market , and not for this kind of price . project manager: The product is is is  b high qua  has a high quality and and is  advanced . But whether or not our clients are are  willing to pay twenty five Euros for this kind of device is doub is well , is not sure . user interface: But we could couldn't  what what's the selling price ? Fifty ? project manager: Twenty five Euros . industrial designer: That's quite ex user interface: That's price , but w w industrial designer: well , it's not it's not very expensive for a remote control that that has this functionality . An original remote control of any T_V_ kind ,  a Phillips remote control , y you pay  industrial designer: Yes , it's more than fifty Euros . user interface: Yeah , I kn I know  from a few years ago , it it it costed hundred Gilders . project manager: Bu but well yeah , I know , but you're paying for th for the brand , because there are  remote controls which control your stereo , television , D_V_D_ , C_D_ player , for under twenty five Euros . industrial designer: And it's easier to use because those  remote controls don't offer voice recognition project manager: .  What did you think about  the process , the project process ? Ruud ? marketing: industrial designer: marketing: project manager: Try to translate that . project manager: Any any other  , Roo ? user interface: Yeah , I think  industrial designer: Well , I think marketing: Ye project manager: Roo . industrial designer: So And   the the the well , looking at room for creativity , there was w way too the the choice of components was way too narrow . industrial designer: So there was not really a process of  project manager: So we could we we could be we could've been creative . industrial designer: We we thought of possibilities who are not possible  with the the current  offer of  manufacturing components . project manager: Okay , Roo ? Any other thoughts on that ? user interface: No , no . project manager: I think so too , it's it's it's  of course a laboratory environment . So  user interface: marketing: project manager: Yeah , but but si  w w w when taken in account the the situation ,  I think we performed pretty well . project manager: Because of the response industrial designer: It it's project manager: or user interface: Response industrial designer: The response is very slow user interface: and industrial designer: and the possibilities are very limited . The p the pointing of the pen is not  the place where it it writes its   where it  marketing: Draws . project manager: Okay , so user interface: So  project manager: it it had to be  better aligned , or what's the word ? user interface: You to take in account that your you m project manager:  yeah . user interface: It's too slow project manager: It it was calibrated just before this meeting . industrial designer: It is ? project manager: So  it's not the calibration , industrial designer: Okay . project manager:  Ruud , w  did you use the pen a lot ? Or not at all ? marketing: No . user interface: If it has O_C_R_ ,  I think  I would use , but  I I just  took notes for myself and and and that's it . user interface: So industrial designer: But I think it's a great solution for  for  a known problem ,  writing down some notes , some some inf  information , and then  forgetting your notebook somewhere and losing all that information . industrial designer: Because you have everything in one place and it's quite easy quite easy it's it's possible to make this information digital and share it with others in a quite easy way .  What w  Ruud , what did you think about the SMARTboards ? marketing: Oh , I only use it to draw a rabbit , project manager: Yeah . I think that would be very easy if you could say okay , I want to use this for my own work or my own presentation further on or user interface: Yeah . project manager: Or the other way around , that you could show but m industrial designer: Yes , yes . project manager: I know , but user interface: So it's almost project manager: I know , but we couldn't use that feature , user interface: yeah . industrial designer: And and  w you were when you're using  Windows , you're used to a certain interface and certain buttons ,  which you can use for drawing . industrial designer: user interface: industrial designer:  we're done , we're finished , I believe . Thank you for your industrial designer: But  how much time did we get for this meeting ? project manager: Forty minutes . project manager: So , we can  redesign our   I would like to industrial designer: Well , I think we we we all know what the redesign should be . industrial designer: No , it's it's just the same product that is already on the market 