 these are hopefully the points you addressed in  your pre  presentations you're going to show me in a few minutes .  requirements are  teletext , docking station , audio signal , small screen , with some extras that  button information .  does somebody have any comments on these requirements ? Maybe ? No ? These are just the the things we thought of , so maybe if you figured something else or thought of something else , just let me know . So now everybody knows what we're do we're doing ,  I suggest let's get started with the presentations . 'Kay I'm  gonna inform you about the trend-watching I've done over the past few days . And  besides that  I deployed some trend-watchers to Milan and Paris to well get all of the newest trends . And I've consulted some additional trend-watch trend-watchers , after the original trend-watchers return , about what the the best design would be .  for our  group , we're focusing on the people of sixty to eighty y years old , this is  , these factors are slightly more equal .  this is , this image will give you a little bit of an impression about  the look-and-feel that  the remote should have . Just keep it simple and Well the docking station and small screen would be our main points of interest , because this would be the These would  be the innovativeness in the remote control .  well the trend-watchers I consulted advised that it b should be , the remote control and the docking station should be telephone-shaped .  besides that we would advise  to bring two editions , one with a wood-like colour and maybe feel , and one with a grey-black colour . Any questions about the the trends ? marketing: Any questions ? project manager: Mayb user interface:  no . So  only  buttons  for  sound ,  for  on-off ,   shifting u up  sa  ca channel or  down shifting down .  you can think about   when you lost your  remote control , you can  call it and  it gives an  sig signal . And and  for  shifting up a sen  c ch channel or  for   putting out  sound or something , you can  just give a sign  say  sound off or A and  yeah .  double push push  , if double click ,  so  you get  big  subtitles , for  people    which c f  who can't  read small  subtitles . So   Yeah and w we have to keep  in general buttons  so  we've got  the buttons we have to use . The on-off , sound on-off , sound higher or lower ,  the numbers ,  zero to   nine . And  we can  build in a function f which  shows the channel or some  which the t television is on . Just  we can put  the on-off button  over in this  corner ,  almost  e all  remote controls  are using a on-off button on that place . So   and a special  button for shifting up  and  shifting down  channel ,  it's  on place where  the thumb of of the So you you can  easily  shift up or shift down . So  and  all the f functions for subtitle  one button ,  for sound   and  for our design ,   we have to discuss about it  I think  so  the form of it so project manager: Okay .  for the energy source we can use a basic battery or , a as an optional thing , a kinetic energy , like in a watch , which you just shake and it produces energy .  for the casing ,  the  manufacturing department can deliver  a flat casing , single or double curved casing .  as a case supplement , we could  , I thought of that l later ,  a rubber  belt , like a anti-slip . And the chip-set ,  it says simple here , but it should be advanced , because we're using an L_C_D_  screen . And as  the trend-watcher presentation showed ,  people like wood , but it raises the price and it doesn't really fit the image , unless we would start two product lines .  first I think we can talk about the energy source , since that's  has a pretty big influence on production price ,  and image . user interface: project manager:  so  f I think first of all we have to see  it is possible to introduce kinetic energy in our budget , I think . marketing: And how exactly does the kinetic energy work ? industrial designer: Well y you basically shake your remote , and then it powers up . Well personally I don't think that older people like to shake their remote control before they use it . marketing: And I think our docking station could be one of the marketing issues with which we can  get great popularity for our product . user interface: But marketing:  wel user interface: what's the function ? Yeah f for loading up  the batteries . marketing: Yeah you could load up the batteries , user interface: B b marketing: you could  insert the find the lost remote control function in there .  it's  just a small display so I believe  it will run on one battery for  six months or f or or more . project manager:  user interface:  so project manager:  well I think  elderly people just like to have everything in place . project manager: And I don't think they they like  remotes just laying everywhere in their rooms . project manager: But I think it's  more efficient and cheaper to put it in the docking station . project manager: So you have a but button on your docking station which you can push , and then it starts beeping . project manager: And then we can we can still use the voice recognition , but maybe then for only the the channels . marketing: I'm wondering  what will the voice recognition mean for the production price ? project manager: Yeah . marketing: 'Cause in our earlier  market research , if you'd allow me to go to the flat board , SMARTboard .  we also  asked if w they would , if people would pay more for speech recognition in a remote control . marketing: So if that would increase the price for which we're selling our remote control user interface:  . user interface: marketing: I think that would be better to  insert in our other product , that is meant for the project manager: Yeah . industrial designer: But that would also go for the L_C_D_ screen then I guess . It's a bit higher percentage , but marketing:  well this is Yeah but this is here the question was , would you prefer it . And on top of that the L_C_D_ screen would  help in making the remote control easier to use . user interface: But  is  our  research  about  bi large  L_C_D_ sh  display , or  just a small one  we want to  use ? marketing:  well this was for like an L_C_D_ screen like you would have on a on the the most advanced mobile phones . project manager: I personally think the L_C_D_ screen we wanna use , with the extra information , I think nobody has anything against it . And I don't think the I don't think it will be a lot easier to use , as well . If we don't have the voice recognition , it will it won't use a lot of energy to use . project manager: So in that case we could use kinetic  energy , but I think just a simple battery which you can reload on a docking station is just as good . industrial designer: Well there isn't any choice there because we're using the the the the display . project manager:  but I think it will attract elderly people who wanna have something exclusive , which they can show off to their grandkids . project manager: Look I've got a new remote control , and  industrial designer: user interface:  I dunno . project manager: But with colour was a lot more expensive ? Or ? industrial designer:  I dunno . project manager: It's a lot more difficult to to handle and to to get in the right shape . So   you 'cause  Yeah with  mobile phones   so  like the Nokia mobile phones ,  when you can change the case of it . So   you have just to make one  standard  remote control , and  yeah you can sell  few  project manager: You can sell the cases . Because  then you can advertise as well with the Give your grandfather a new case for his remote control , or whatever . industrial designer: marketing: project manager: Because that's a it's something extra , it's something other remotes don't have , user interface: Yeah . marketing: 'Cause we would have to make one w  control which would fit in with a wooden cover and a plastic cover . So marketing: So that would project manager: you suggest we should design two different telephones on which you can apply , yeah remote controls , on which you can apply different case covers , for example . marketing: Well I wouldn't design a telephone industrial designer: marketing: but user interface: marketing: Well no I think w we should just , we should then just design one  project manager: Remote . marketing: one remote , but it would have to be fancy with either the wood cover or the plastic one . project manager: So everybody's okay with the changing covers ? I think that's a good  good option . marketing: Could you explain that a little more ? industrial designer: Well the the general like most older remotes are flat , just straight . marketing: And what would single curved and double curved mean ? industrial designer:  it would just only affect the form , for as far as I know . project manager:  but the form has to be  It has to It's has to be possible to stand up ? Or just only to lie down ? marketing: No just to lie down . project manager: And the the cover of the the docking station is also marketing: We'll go for that . What type of interface do we want to use ?  maybe you can make a little drawing of it on the marketing: project manager: Does somebody have ideas for a form or user interface:  we can just use the regular form of it , but it's  not quite  fancy . marketing:  you  said you wanted to put the  changing channels button on the right side , user interface: Yeah . marketing: Well  I think that was a very good point 'cause I pointed out earlier that a lot of remotes cause R_S_I_ . Yeah we Is it possible to  program it s so  you got on the left side  or on the right side  buttons for for shifting u up and shifting up ? And on the  other   o other side  buttons for  shifting ,  for for the sound ? Or Or isn't it ? marketing: For the volume . marketing: that could Yeah we could do that but I'm not sure if that would be very good for the easy , ease of use . project manager: Usabili Yeah ease of use will be a lot more difficult , user interface: Yeah okay . project manager: marketing: But if we would make  a changing channels and changing volume button on both sides , that would certainly yield great options for the design of the remote . Or we have to make a left  For lefties project manager: Can't we make  Can't we make a remote which you can flip over and use on the same user interface: and  project manager: functions as the normal one ? user interface: You mean  project manager: Then you have to user interface: Yeah if project manager: Let's see if I ca A blank one . But is it a problem that left-handed persons use a different hand ? I think the functions are that basic that nobody should have any problems with  choosing a channel marketing: Yeah . user interface: So  it's project manager: I think we could just  leave it a normal shape . industrial designer: The the single curved so I'm not really sure what they're gonna look like , but I think it's something like this . project manager: I suggest  the single curved , because maybe the curve is pretty good to put the the screen in . user interface: project manager:  so that elderly people can  use the remote control and at the same time look easily at the screen , because it's a bit , it has a bit of a angle . user interface: So  Do you say this  S   you got like  sort of a I believe There ? marketing: user interface: So  you want to put a display over here ? Or not ? project manager: Yeah .  project manager: But now it's user interface: we can make it  project manager: Do you have it upside down or user interface:  ? project manager: Do you have it user interface: That's the top . user interface:  rem project manager: So just flip it a hundred and eighty degrees around then you get here . user interface: Yeah but this place  project manager: If you can have this one , you turn it like this . user interface:  it's Yeah I dunno  project manager: Because  maybe your hand is in the way , if you have the display here . user interface: industrial designer: It's more logical to have it on top as well project manager: I think i industrial designer: because , like on your mobile phone , it's always above . But  the on-off button ,  still on the top  project manager: Yeah still here user interface: Yeah . Where's my mouse ? Then We've got a general idea of the concepts and the materials we're going to use . So now for the next meeting  we'll have to look at the look-and-feel design . project manager: And then we're going to  try to finish our project , and  make a good design for all the grandfathers and grandmothers , I think . I'm not sure if you're going to start right away to work together or I think you're going to fill in the questionnaires first 