project manager:  as you may have noticed I  user interface: industrial designer: project manager: created separate folders because it was  tending to get a little busy in our  shared project documents  folder . project manager: I don't know if everybody  put their own  documents in the right folder , which is for now the detailed design meeting . user interface: Didn't we just do that ? industrial designer: Yeah , save in the folder . project manager: Oh no , this is just one big document , so you can leave that wherever it is . industrial designer: user interface: project manager:  what are we going to do ? I've opened it already .  I'm still going to take some minutes , and if I'm right , you two are going to give a prototype presentation ? industrial designer: Oh , sorry . And  then we have to look at something which is less nice , the finance  aspect , whether we can afford what we have designed , user interface: Oops . project manager: and if we can we can  commence the final part which is the production or project evaluation , how did we work together and what are the results , and how happy are we with those . And the R_ and R_ logo , it just says R_ and R_ now , but  industrial designer: Okay ? user interface: Any questions so far ? marketing: Big microphone . user interface: Oh y you perhaps you should make it a bit big , so people know it's there and  industrial designer: Do not forget it .  using the scroll button on sides  y  I   user interface: You push the scroll button industrial designer: Yeah , you push the scroll button user interface: and it's claps out if there's a industrial designer: and a drop down menu or a pull out menu comes out and  you get  you get the options  becoming available . industrial designer: So  you can scroll down too with the scroll  button ,  as you can see oh , it's here , just push it in ,  the menu comes out like this and  i it all becomes visible . And you could also touch it so that it comes out , industrial designer: Yeah , that's c user interface: and and use the the the scroll thing as a with your fingers . industrial designer: Okay ,  it's also  nice to see that  we made a small  menu ,  the options menu  becoming available when pressing the  scroll  button , and the opportunity to use the teletext , whi which is used  which should still be used and we think that it's  very handy to put it  not  under the options menu , but in  Yes . project manager: So a separate button for for text , industrial designer: In a separate button , yeah . Would you like to make any comments about next  user interface:  well , this is the total interface  that f of the L_C_D_ screen . just when you are one and you go to two , you can or if you go to five , you can go back to one with that button . marketing: user interface: And this is the  the on off  knop , the stand by  knop . You can see very clearly now that the  teletext and options menu isn't  taking  much   it's taking much part of the screen , so it's very  when you  when you use it , doesn't  become irritating to see . industrial designer: 'Cause if you put it on the top you always get see the the options menu . industrial designer: project manager: And I just missed when I was typing The R_R_ stands for ? industrial designer: user interface: That's the logo of the project manager: Logo , okay . It's th th right now it's only R_ R_ , but  marketing: project manager: Okay well industrial designer: Full screen . 'Kay , my task was this time to put up a questionnaire by which we can evaluate the design of the remote control by the questions we requirements from the of the users . Questionnaire with seven point scale from one to seven , from true to false , user interface: Right . marketing: like question , is remote big enough , we can say it's true or it's false by steps . marketing: The three important things of refa are  from th of this year is are , industrial designer: Sorry , user interface: industrial designer: you used the PowerPoint marketing: is the remote control fancy enough , user interface: Yeah . Is the design fancy enough ? user interface: Well marketing: Project Manager , what do you think ? project manager: Well it's looks fancy , especially with the green colour . project manager: Only what happened to the single curve we spoke about last meeting ? user interface: It  oh it's in the background . industrial designer: Now  the single curved idea was  Yeah , okay , you ge  user interface: Y you should make  a sideways  view . user interface: So it would be  something like this from the side , but with a bit of  curve here , industrial designer: it works . industrial designer: That's not very i it's also  very handy if you make a side curve way to make the the remote control very thin at the bottom  at a bottom at a bottom .  make it  rather thick on the top , because  on the top it has  the screen , which takes  in some  space , and the batteries can be located over there , user interface: Yeah . So you just make the back of this part a bit bigger , industrial designer: so  user interface: so that it lays a bit o industrial designer: Yeah . marketing: Isn't going to be a little bit heavy at the top ? industrial designer: user interface: Yeah , that's a bit of problem maybe . marketing: With two batteries , the whole print plate and t and top , and if you're holding it quite a lot I think user interface: Yeah . I think yeah , the battery should be in here , because it's just nothing , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: Okay , but we have to rate  these things now ? user interface: 'Cause otherwise I think i marketing: Yeah , we have to rate . user interface: I if you don't make it green , then the elder people won't won't like it . marketing: I think Yeah , I have to agree , all the colour colours don don doesn't matter that m that much now , user interface: Yeah . project manager: Well I think  especially because of the microphone and the L_C_D_ screen also . marketing: Yeah , I n used I wouldn I should use that one , but it doesn't industrial designer: user interface: But it's a one  Maybe  marketing: Okay , no it's two ? True is a one . marketing: Very true , is it very true or isn't that true ? project manager: Well I'd say two on a scale user interface: Well they think it's very true , but  industrial designer: It's very true , because we designed it to be very fancy , marketing: Yeah , I think two . user interface: Yeah , industrial designer: so user interface: but industrial designer: It's very fancy , I think . user interface: We should perhaps industrial designer: Have you ever seen a remote control like this ? project manager: No , okay well , that's true . marketing: Then ? project manager: That doesn't matter that much , so make it a one . project manager: Yeah user interface: because it has an L_C_D_ screen , a mi microphone . project manager: m industrial designer: And   the scroll is rubber , user interface: It's from rubber . Also huh -huh the buttons , are they easy to find ? That was a big requirement of the old people . industrial designer: With the ones marketing: Are all the buttons easy to find ? Not only this buttons , all the buttons . user interface: but if you touch the options then it's  industrial designer: Take a harder look , yeah , sure . marketing: I think th it's industrial designer: It's easier than the regular  remote control . marketing: easy t project manager: Yeah , and you use these buttons the most , marketing: Yeah , I think this is easy now . I think th I think the options buttons are not the the easiest way to to project manager: huh ? So industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: No they're not , but they're they're they are easy to find . industrial designer: Yeah , they are a lot easier to find than  th than on the regular remote controls marketing: I would rate it a user interface: Oh . project manager: So industrial designer: So you have t you have to use the the the manual to understand most project manager: which marketing: But that's that's vantage of L_C_D_ screen , you can have text . project manager: Two , three and industrial designer: It's not perfect , but marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: And why is that ? marketing: I personally think , because I d I don't think i maybe it's easy to use , it has to be easy to find right away . I I think if you have the button at the right , I don't think you can find the option button that easy . user interface: Yeah , but you don't have t have to use the button on the right . marketing: Yeah , okay , but you have y then you have here s written option on here , the teletext button , user interface: Yeah . user interface: You can touch options project manager: A two , okay , user interface: and it's comes out . project manager: It's the box below it , industrial designer:  the next question the next question . user interface: I think it's industrial designer: I think it's the most useful  remote control ever to be manufactured . project manager: Okay , you're very enthusiastic about your own design , marketing: Also if you're sixty years old project manager: huh ? industrial designer: Yeah , but because it has the regular  controls , li  as you can see in the screen now , and  you don't have all the other options  always  on your screen . You want these options to marketing: Also project manager: As well for the for the older people ? industrial designer:  sure . marketing: Yeah , as well as your if you're fif sixty years old , you're holding one of those things in your hand user interface: Yeah , but  Yeah , but they they don't want the  extra options , right ? marketing: No , but we're going to th make this f for a all kind of people , user interface: So project manager: And would it be easy for them to use the speech recognition ? user interface: Yeah , okay , marketing: so it it it has to be user interface: but so they could  I think it is . project manager: Because that might marketing: If you read the manual , user interface: Yeah , alright . user interface: Because it it's not it's not it's it's not  difficult . industrial designer:  because a lot of user interface: You say you say  record to to the to the speech recognition , industrial designer: Channel one , channel four , yeah . industrial designer: project manager: Yeah , well maybe that would make it even more easy to use for them . marketing: So industrial designer: Because all the people who can't  user interface: I would make it two . industrial designer: That's definitely our  user interface: Oh nee , oh seven is it ? It is . project manager: but I think you should make it one scale with with one being good and seven being bad , marketing: Yeah , I think isn't , this has to be something like isn't overwhelmed . project manager: because otherwise we can't  calculate anything from the results , user interface: It's not overwhelmed . project manager: because we designed for that , huh ? marketing: Remote control has  colours that different that meet different target groups . project manager: Yeah , and I though w we had about single colours , marketing: That's true . project manager: but you can also make  a wood colour , not just one single colour but a wood-like thing , user interface: Yeah . project manager: can't you ? marketing: Also with rubber ? user interface:  I think you can . project manager: Whether it looks like wood , it isn't w it isn't wood marketing: Yeah , okay . project manager: but user interface: It it feels like rubber , project manager: You can make a print on rubber , user interface: but project manager: can't you ? Yeah . project manager: So that's a one then , user interface: Well but then when you scratch it it does come off . marketing: Yeah ? project manager: huh ? marketing: That's a one ? user interface: So that's a bit industrial designer: Yeah , it is it is harder to marketing: Okay . project manager: Do you have many questions ? marketing:  I have industrial designer: to like project manager: Oh , okay well marketing: user interface: Oh we have time . marketing: The material used is spongy , user interface: What ? marketing: that that's  that's a one , that's m rubber . marketing: Yeah , user interface: Oh marketing: I th think it's not the most spongy thing . user interface: but not it's not very spongy , because it's hard rubber . industrial designer: because you want to make it  rather flexible but not too flexible , user interface: Hard but Yeah . marketing: Y you can't you can't lose it if you're sixty years old . If first time see the thing you didn didn't adjust  set the microphone , and then you lose it , then you have lost it . user interface: Yeah , it it is there's the project manager: Yeah , industrial designer: Isn't hard to lose . user interface: it's a six , you think ? industrial designer: Isn't hard to lose , yeah . marketing: Or if you're you're sixty years old , your demands project manager: Yeah , but a har A hard to lose is good . Yeah , so then this is it is almost true , industrial designer: This project manager: A two . marketing: Nah , the material isn't that user interface: It's it's much more younger . project manager: Well I think it's it's  a lower number , so better because w we designed it for young people especially , user interface: Yeah . marketing: Yeah , project manager: didn't we ? user interface: I think it's a two marketing: but I  user interface: but marketing: Okay , okay . project manager: What do you think ? marketing: I think because project manager: Questions ? industrial designer: A two ? I think it's two . user interface: What did marketing: Because younger peoples are cr critical and they wanted a lot of features on this thing . industrial designer: Well , n not exactly but   if it had some games on it or something like that , user interface: Yeah bu but industrial designer: but it's for a remote control I think it i it would satisfy those needs . You could call to your  industrial designer: Yeah , the speech possibility , user interface: yeah , and the screen , industrial designer: the colours . marketing: It's three features , basically , project manager: with marketing: the L_C_D_ touch screen is feature . user interface: aren't the features the microphone's feature and that you can change the channel's feature , and that you can change the volume is feature , project manager: Yeah . user interface: Enough features ? marketing: So I've chos I shou I think it's it's it's a one . I think once you've 'cause you have the channel features b  you have the  screen features , audio features , the you have all buttons on it which you'd like , microphone extra , L_C_D_ screen extra , scroll thing extra . marketing: Has user interface:  it's not the colour , so maybe you should make two , but it has R_ and R_ . user interface: Yeah , project manager: Yeah , user interface: but not R_ and R_ yellow I think . Well m th but the logo is on on the front , industrial designer: Okay , true , yeah . project manager: so a two , yeah , user interface: One d on i it's the colours and the marketing: X_ marks spot . project manager: that's marketing: And the menu is avail that is available is easy to use . industrial designer: I think it's easier to use than a regular remote control , because when you push on the options menu , you get the the the various options  entirely explained . project manager: user interface: industrial designer: Instead of  just finding out what an icon means on a button . Yeah ,  user interface: And you can navigate easier , because wi with the you have to push the the the arrows and with a normal T_V_  remote . Well industrial designer: marketing: Let's go th for inhalation of air] user interface: Menu . project manager: Oh , well that's that's pretty good , user interface: We only have twos . project manager:  let's see oh , it isn't asked to save but it did already industrial designer: Yeah . Well , the next part  might be a little bit difficult to do in a group , but I am willing to try it . marketing: project manager: Because we are going to look at the finance and I have a nice Excel sheet to do that .  and we're going to calculate the production costs , and if they are  under or at twelve Euro fifty , user interface: Yeah . project manager: we're good , and if they're not we're going to  re-design , user interface: Yeah . project manager: but we have to do that  very very quick I think , user interface: So we're going to erase features or something .  I don't know if I user interface: Do you have the cost project manager: put the Excel sheet in the user interface: or  Let's hope . I think it's user interface: We're going to be here at eight o'clock . industrial designer: user interface: We're goin still going to be here at eight o'clock . user interface: it was in my  my information , so  industrial designer: It i It wasn't too much . user interface: Well , if it doesn't work project manager:  maybe I could ask one of you to  fill it in , so that I can also  take minutes , user interface: I want to fill it in , but  project manager: and  maybe the other can  use that thing to count  numerous functions . user interface: But you should  direct marketing: Count it ? Li like write it be project manager: Well we have to count some things and we have to think about some things . user interface: The number of marketing: project manager: No ,  count  number of functions , because for every button you have to pay industrial designer: Oh okay . project manager: and there are different screen shots , so or different different screens , industrial designer: Well I dra marketing: Ah , okay , cool . industrial designer:  Danny , Danny , I'll do that , marketing: Huh ? Yeah ? Oh , yea yeah , you design it .  industrial designer: because I draw the  project manager: so user interface: We've got a battery , one or t two batteries , or not ? nee one battery , with two small batteries . project manager: Yeah , but it's it's more about the energy source , huh ? Do you use a hand dynamo , a battery , kinetic or solar cells ? user interface: Yeah . user interface: Electronics , simple chip industrial designer: Hand marketing: We have user interface: advanced chip , right ? marketing: No , we have sample speaker . marketing: But b al but we also have sample speaker , do user interface: Yeah , industrial designer: Yeah , yeah . industrial designer: But it isn't three dimensional , user interface: Oh the the industrial designer: it isn't curved in a l marketing: This one is user interface: it's not going to work  people . industrial designer: No no no , project manager:  rubber indeed ? industrial designer: single curved is like this .  that's the only curve you made , marketing: Yeah , bu what industrial designer: not th  curved like that . user interface: Thirteen ? marketing: There are two curves , right ? Oh , okay I understand , I understand . user interface: With a scroll wheel , industrial designer: Huh ? user interface: right ? Is he integrated ? industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: we gotta integrate scroll wheel and push button , because when you push it and you w it won't just pu  makes possible to s user interface: Oh yeah , right , we want it to it's not it's not no . user interface: Oh , we don't have any buttons , so marketing: Eighteen and a half , user interface: Yeah , we need to  marketing: damn . industrial designer: Yeah , if you can't push it you have to tap the the options window  button here and then  scroll down with the d with  with  the button . user interface: Yeah , but if you would i it is a new feature , it it's something special . industrial designer: Okay , so we don't exactly need the single We don't need a curve . marketing: But w d wha user interface: No , the curve doesn't really industrial designer: 'S possible to lose curve . marketing: Was that does that mean to it , single curve ? industrial designer: Yeah , that's meant with scr  with s curve . industrial designer: If you make it a flat one , s n it's no curve , you got no curves . marketing: So we don't user interface: So we still marketing: Yeah , we also have to industrial designer: Is it possible to make user interface: Could could we do it on a regular chip on print or something ? marketing: No , otherwise we don't have an L_C_D_ screen . user interface: No ? Ma y you just can't do that , or  industrial designer: No . project manager: And what did you change ? You changed the  scroll wheel user interface: We changed th project manager: and user interface: Yeah , and the single curved to uncurved . Yeah , so that does doesn't doesn't that mu I think project manager: point , so maybe you should should  user interface: No . marketing: That that's  user interface: Yeah , but it's t marketing: Yes , four points . user interface: Yeah , but it is  it it is a new feature , project manager: Or can't you ? user interface: it is something special . industrial designer: Yeah ,  becau  when you lose the marketing: Yeah , but what what else what else  do you want to scrap ? user interface: I don't know . project manager: Or make it on a hand dynamo , but I don't think that will work . industrial designer: marketing: Ma make it with wood instead of rubber ? industrial designer: No , that's no . industrial designer: Make it w  when you made it    a remote control of wood ? user interface: We could make it titanium instead of rubber . project manager: Yeah , but  a wooden remote control only helps for  old people we discussed , user interface: Oh . Oh can I ask something ? project manager: yes ? user interface: What is special colour ? marketing: Yeah . user interface: this , we have to have that one too ? industrial designer: It isn't . user interface: Th then we still have too much marketing: Yeah , okay , user interface: if we use the  industrial designer: But m yeah , course , marketing: three . industrial designer: but user interface: Yeah , we we scrap that one ? industrial designer: What we'll have . marketing: Yeah , but a wood user interface: Make it  marketing: we can make it brown , dark brown , not wood . user interface: Yeah , but it's it's special colour , is it a all kind of colours ? industrial designer: Yeah , special colours , fruity colours . marketing: Normal colours , yellow user interface: You have to add something to the rubber to make it green . marketing: Yeah , but then I d I don't think we can ever make to a twelve and half . user interface: Yeah , you can , you should you have to lose marketing: But then we have to scrap L_C_D_ display , we have to scrap  user interface: No , it is the scroll wheel , I guess . No then we have to scrap everything we got because how many colours we gonna make ? industrial designer: If we lose the scroll wheel and make it totally  depending  dependent on  the touch screen marketing: Five ? Then we have two . industrial designer: Okay , if you lose  if you lose the user interface: It was such a great idea . industrial designer: You lose this one , you got eleven point five marketing: They can add two colours .  how ma  the colours like l she told , is that all the colours we add or industrial designer: How d   how many colours ? user interface: What do you mean ? industrial designer: Special colours , all the colours you want , because you want to make p marketing: Yeah , but we we we are we have yellow , red ,  black , titanium . industrial designer: Yeah , but  when you use more than one colour , it's a special colour . user interface: But I think when you use the colour that's not originally the rubber then you use special colour , industrial designer: I suppose . marketing: Yeah b Yeah , but we're gonna make it yellow  red , and then you add you have two special colours on top of the one we have now . project manager: Yeah , but isn't it per remote that you pay ? user interface: Yeah . marketing: I then I think I p I don I don't think they me mean they're special project manager: Half ? user interface: Oh right , yeah . industrial designer: You don't need four of those  four of those special colours in one in one remote . industrial designer: project manager: Because of thing user interface: Or not ? project manager: Yeah , well you can at least make it curved again . project manager: Because that was very important , user interface: It's too bad for the speaker . project manager: huh ? So it's curved , it's still that so we we dropped the speech recognition together with the speaker . user interface: Should we change that tha that that's a one if not , marketing:  yep . user interface: or not ? Could you copy it ? project manager: And the rest is the same , user interface: And make it  project manager: huh ? Am I right ? marketing: Y yea the scroll wheel is dropped . user interface: Would you ? industrial designer: Twenty minutes ? user interface: By the Perhaps you can save this one , and then copy or something . industrial designer: Okay , so you had this list at start ? project manager:  ? No , I hadn't .  and did you try to make a new design , or what were you trying to do ? user interface: Yeah , I tried to copy that one , but it didn't work . project manager: Oh , you can arrange industrial designer: You can only re erase ? user interface: Erase . user interface: When you saw th li  Earlier when we selected it , w I couldn't erase anything . user interface: project manager: Well but that's also useful for the evaluation , because I think  we have a prototype now marketing: Evaluation drops . project manager: which we can afford and  we only need to draw a little bit to get a good  design . user interface: marketing: industrial designer: project manager: Let's see , we can save this now .  what did you think about  the process ? How satisfied are we ? industrial designer: Deadlines were sometimes very short . marketing: I think we it should be b it would be better if we worked a little bit together . user interface: Yeah , you had information I didn't have marketing: something he said user interface: and then  marketing: yeah , and you had information I also had , user interface: Oh right . marketing: so some some things I had in my presentation , they already told , industrial designer: Yeah . project manager: And for me it sometimes was a surprise who was going to present what , huh ? user interface: Yeah . marketing: So yeah , that I don't think that is the best way to work at for such project . industrial designer: marketing: Yeah , no , or maybe session of five minutes together or something , and then work separate . industrial designer: but but why not work here together , for example ? user interface: Yeah , you could industrial designer: Why should we be separated from each other in those difference  different rooms ? user interface: Yeah . Then you can work together too by mail or by , I dunno , chat , something , project manager: No . I don't think that was the best way , but industrial designer: But the technology was  fantastic . user interface: I I don't really like the board , it doesn't really work great . industrial designer: Work now ? marketing: Yeah okay , but I don I do I think becau that's because industrial designer: Perhaps it is e user interface: It does work , but sometimes it doesn't erase or it doesn't  industrial designer: Yeah , perhaps it is easier to get one of those  dig digital pens or so and to  and lay it next to that keyboard over there . project manager: So you don't think the SMARTboard is is really useful user interface: But project manager: or user interface: Well industrial designer: It's useful , but not m user interface: it is useful , marketing: Yeah , it is useful , but user interface: but it doesn't really work all the time . user interface: Th the pen doesn't industrial designer: Because when you put this pen on the screen   for exam and line is d being drawn at at two or three centimetres  below . But industrial designer: The project  because of the deadlines you didn't had the time to  have , you didn't have time to  to make a very  qualitati qualitative  presentation . industrial designer: So you used  this  the different PowerPoint presentations  in which you put your  material in the Oh . project manager: the means , we discussed the smart board , and what about  this digital pen ? user interface: I I I used it , marketing: I didn't use it at all . project manager: Yeah , well industrial designer: But I didn't I  project manager: I use it as a a normal pen and and and only you use it to  get it on the computer , user interface: Yeah , I used it to y to project manager: huh ? user interface: Yeah , it did work pretty well . user interface: I don't think why you would want to use it actually , industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: To make some designs , marketing: It is it is industrial designer: it is very easy . user interface: It's a bit industrial designer: Yeah , it's too big , it's too fat . industrial designer: project manager: Okay ,  and what about the teamwork ? user interface: I think it was great , marketing: Team work was okay . project manager: but that was it was our assignment , marketing: With some things that was only problem , user interface: Yeah , but it was because we didn't  marketing: but project manager: huh ? user interface: Yeah . project manager: and maybe I should walk out of the room when you discuss  this point , the leadership . project manager: And creativity ? Well , when we look at this I'd say we have been creative , user interface: industrial designer: project manager: huh ? But user interface: Well . industrial designer: Yeah , or the room for project manager: There was room for industrial designer: it was the idea to be creative , so user interface: Yeah . user interface: but industrial designer: The information  was sometimes  a little bit too late marketing: Little bit  lo yeah . industrial designer: or marketing: it it it took a lot of time before you got your ema user interface: You just sit there for ten minutes . user interface: project manager: You did ? Well , user interface: Oh industrial designer: project manager: I didn't have time for that . user interface: did you ? Is it on there ? Is it on there ? marketing: Wha user interface: I didn't find the didn't look but  project manager: At some times I Sometimes I received like like five emails at at one moment , industrial designer: Was searching and searching . industrial designer: project manager: marketing: I always user interface: I got like one email after ten minutes or something . marketing: So does this I think lik oh and information was a bit low I think , sometimes , user interface: And it not a lot  marketing: in in in in the beginning I didn't understand what what to do . industrial designer: No , w I didn't know user interface: I didn't know  marketing: Yeah , like I with with the remote and I never new we have t we had to  yeah made a made a rec a remote control . user interface: And I didn't know what to do for the first ten minutes before we got here , marketing: Yeah , so user interface: so I went , right . project manager: And I was working and working and work user interface: Just looking at the screen and  industrial designer: No . project manager: but after all we can say  we are satisfied , but it it could've been  better . industrial designer: First of all I didn't think  that we were able to make an L_C_D_ screen  first point , user interface: Yeah . user interface: Yea  so tha actually you could make an L_C_D_ screen but no mic , or it could make mic but no L_C_D_ screen , when you look at that . project manager: And  what were the other points to to improve this whole process ? marketing: user interface: I dunno . project manager: And so more time  w might have improved the the quality of work , marketing: So project manager: is what you say . Yeah , but that It's now half past four half past three , so user interface: Yeah , but it's just the the off hours between that you will work alone . project manager: I just got my warning for the last five minutes , so I'll move on to I guess my last slide , user interface: You did ? Well marketing: project manager: yes , which is the closing . I don't know if that's the best way to when it isn't is it when it is too expensive to quickly re-arrange it and say , okay , this is it , user interface: Oh , right . project manager: but we had to do it , user interface: Well project manager: huh , because we have to have a design , and that is within the budget . Maybe we should re-evaluate  the product , but we did that before , and we also evaluated the project . At least I am , with the results , user interface: project manager: so  celebration , well , for the three of you , user interface: Yeah . marketing: project manager: But  well , thank you very much for your co-operation , marketing: project manager: and I had a very nice day so far . user interface: I I think we have to fill in a questionnaire again , project manager: Yeah I have t user interface: but project manager: I think we also have to go to our own rooms again , but  well user interface: We do ? industrial designer:  . But maybe you can try  to make a screen shot of this , so I can try to include it in the final report . user interface: Yeah , but it's it isn't a picture or , well , is it ? project manager: I know , we should remove this , industrial designer: You s  file save as the J_ PEG J_ PEG . marketing: Can you find it as a J_ PEG ? user interface: No , industrial designer: No . marketing: Celebra user interface: How big do you want the images ? marketing: Or shouldn't I ? industrial designer: Let's have some fun 