user interface: Why won't it wake up ? Is it on ? marketing: The power light doesn't work . Okay , so I just show you the m the no   the the the the the the minutes , minute . project manager: Okay , so we just talked about  Oh you want me to show that there or user interface: No , industrial designer:  no . And the functions are volume , channel to choose channels , an on-off , a mute  button , and a text T_V_ button . project manager: So I just want to give you  Mike again , the first  presentation of your marketing: Shall I start ? project manager: Yeah . I searched the web ,  and  I searched  on this d document , recent investigation of the remote control market .  but  they found out the most important aspect for remote controls happens to be a fancy look-and-feel , instead of the current functional look and feel . And then  that  This is a point of discussion , because we just decided that we don't make use of  L_C_D_ or  speech recognition . marketing: But  this is the second  important  aspect , and I think  we must use some of the new technology , to be  innovative . And it says  fashion-watchers of   Pari  France and  Italy , yeah ,  have detected the following trends . marketing: But the  the next  aspect also in contrast to last year , the feel of material is expe   is expected to be spongy . marketing: But spongy , what what does spongy says ? industrial designer: Spongy . project manager: because you've you're you drop y your remote control very often on the ground . project manager: Is it a bit like like the the the the remote control ? user interface: How are you gonna make it ? project manager: R_ soft . industrial designer: Yeah , marketing:  industrial designer: I've some  material  information , but I'll give you it later in my presentation . marketing: Okay ? project manager: marketing: What do I think ?  because a fancy look is the most important thing  for remote control  control , I think about changeable fronts . Yeah , how do we do that ? Maybe speech ? We ma must have some kind of gadget . marketing: Intro project manager: Because it's only twelve and a half Euros you have to spend on every remote control . user interface: So  industrial designer: Yeah , well actually we have don't have an idea how much it's gonna cost . But maybe it's cheap user interface: Yeah , industrial designer: and it's easy to implement . I d They don't say how much it will cost , so  but  marketing: user interface: if we implement  speech recognition , I think it would be better to implement L_C_D_ as well . So you can say , you can user interface: Since you have to  configure speech thing . project manager: But that's definitely more expensive than user interface: Yeah , that's that's something I dunno . But a telephone also have a L_C_D_ and and it's about t two hundred Euros . user interface: Yeah , so  we gotta de project manager: So  user interface: We have to decide on that . That was this ? user interface:   industrial designer: Oh I got an email  And it says  the chip can be  simple , regular or advanced . So user interface: L_D_C_ doesn't require industrial designer: it's m the most expensive . industrial designer: I I haven't got anything about speech recognition , but user interface: I'll I'll give you my design . 'Cause remote con control , you can see it here , you have to bo reach both out both sides . project manager: Yeah , maybe the teletext tel user interface: Yeah , text button , maybe there and there . user interface: but it's marketing: No , I don't  I don't like it . And you can't use them now with your thumb , because the thing is not , it's not easy to control . industrial designer: Yeah okay , m maybe we cho should put that on top , and buttons we we don't use on , in the bottom . user interface: They're on top ? project manager: Yeah , just th th th other buttons like text T_V_ . industrial designer: But I I think w you'll use  the switch channels buttons  more often than the normal  channel buttons , like one two three . I dunno , but yeah we'll industrial designer: Like zapping is just switching one channel at a time . user interface: And  if you don't light 'em up , they don't  you don't see 'em very good . industrial designer: That's that's good , but user interface: I think it's modern to light this area up , and to light this area up . It's s We have to look  what's easy to use , and how it's easier to use . user interface: I dunno if it l will look good , if you put those on t on the bottom half . Yeah , maybe industrial designer: But  we we can switch those two , user interface: Those two , yeah . user interface: And  , yeah , you have to make sure it's easy to  Yes , it has to be big enough so you can hold it , right . And  well  if we want to put in speech rec recognition or something , we I don't think we should put it on top then . I think that , if we're gonna put in more technology , that you need to be able to  switch it open . project manager: We have to decide this this lecture , or this this this  fifty minutes , yeah , how it is gonna look . If you aim at a young public , you should use materials that are soft with primary colours like green , blue , red . I don't know exactly what that means , but it should be , well yeah , popular kind of project manager: Yeah , we have to put our Real Reaction logo as well on the on the remote control . user interface:  Yeah , it's project manager: So we have ha to ma make it in black , black , yellow . industrial designer: Yeah ,  n Not that weird , because we definitely want to make it kind of flashy , to attract a young public . user interface: Yeah , but  I don't think the the colours black and yellow go well together . But project manager: We make i Maybe you can put yellow on the side and black on the on the front . That's a that's a sen That's just a matter of tastes , but user interface: Yeah , okay . user interface:  can't we use  different  fron  fronts , with all with the the logo on it ? Can we do that ? So project manager: Yeah , it's cool . industrial designer: S user interface: You can Just like a mobile phone , you can make  different fronts on it . user interface: A more Yeah , just  marketing:   project manager: That's better prob industrial designer: With the hard hard buttons . The the the new  new modern  remote controls ,  the buttons are part of the  the style , I think is part of the remote control itself .  it's n doesn't Is  a button   How do you say it ? industrial designer: Yeah , it's it's all on one level . marketing: It it didn't it i it don't come out of the on the background . project manager: basic remote control from normal plastic , marketing: project manager: and industrial designer: Yeah . industrial designer: But I think we have to make the case transparent , otherwise the back light won't work . industrial designer: So if you put project manager: Y i if you The numbers could be can be user interface:  you can just make them around the buttons  project manager: Yeah , that's right . user interface: Or it runs the whole industrial designer: Yeah , but we can still make it transparent . user interface: Yeah , you can halfs transparent , industrial designer: Or no user interface: or just that it's comes out a bit . user interface:  depends on the colour of the project manager: Yeah , but you can't choo You can't choose it when you buy it . Is marketing: but can you change it if you already bought the the remote control ? user interface: Yeah , it can . project manager: industrial designer: I don't know what it is , but it should be there I think . marketing: project manager: user interface: industrial designer:  this is the normal circuit board , like a chip board in in a lot of  things . project manager: Yeah , we have to hurry up a bit , so industrial designer: W So we d we just need this and this transistors and resonators . user interface: industrial designer:  they they basically said that that's almost the same on any  remote controls . project manager: We still want to have a recharger , don't we ? industrial designer: Yeah but project manager: Is that still the user interface: Yes . industrial designer: Yeah , but it i We don't wanna have a ar an How do you call it ? Accu . user interface: project manager: It's just batteries , industrial designer: so marketing: project manager: that's cheaper . So we need  the expensive , most expensive chip , if we use an L_C_D_ . industrial designer:  are are we using a a rubber case , or project manager: Oh just sk industrial designer: We haven't decided yet . It's user interface:  I don't think a rubber case looks industrial designer: L marketing:  but we have to do something about the trend . Or should we do it in the next meeting ? user interface:  I_D_ and U_I_D_ work together on prototype drawing on smart board . industrial designer: So we should did it here ? project manager: That's for th user interface: So we're staying here ? project manager:  that I think that's the next next meeting . user interface: Okay , so now we're ka thirty minutes alone again ? industrial designer: Yeah . user interface: Just a bit cur Okay , I'll see if I can see any of those . You see what  ? industrial designer: What ? project manager: If I draw here It draws about four centimetres lower than industrial designer: Oh . industrial designer: I think  you'll get a a lot of  volume changing when it's not wanted . project manager: And industrial designer: Yeah , but maybe we can make a a plastic , so that you i if you like drop it , it won't change the volume . user interface: Yeah , maybe you just have to make it  That's not scrollable too easy . And  what's the channel choose ? Where do we  put that ? Still on the bottom industrial designer: I think in middle . project manager: or user interface:  wh what is the middle part ? project manager: That's the numbers . industrial designer:  I think th the numbers should be in the bottom , and and the switch channel in the middle . project manager: It doesn't make a difference , if you put the s  the switch channels on side of each other or on top of each other . user interface: Use the dz project manager: Because you already have the volume here , so You can also put it here one butt and the other one there . project manager: So you can also can put it all on the top , and this , you keep this empty . industrial designer: Or you could do the switch channel up button above the the numbers and switch channel down button below . project manager: But that's not want to zap very quick , so user interface: Yeah , I think  zapping is the highest priority . project manager: Yeah ? Is this a opportunity , user interface: And then you use those  project manager: or you don't want a different user interface: Yeah , of course  . industrial designer:  but I think we we should bu  put 'em on top of each other , so project manager: Why ? industrial designer: Because then it's it's easy to know m if I push the the the up project manager: But still the next It's still the next one . Doesn't make industrial designer: Yeah , but the top the top button is is like you switch channel up , and down button is If you put them project manager: Yeah , but fo from left to right is exactly the same . industrial designer: But  but I I think  left to right is more often associated with volume , and top down is more with  channel changing . user interface: Yeah , I think industrial designer: So so if we use that , they will probably have a long learning  time . I You already have the volume on the side , user interface: No ,  I think project manager: so you can't make it you can't ma make a mistake . project manager: So it's  user interface: I think it's s so simple industrial designer: I dunno . user interface: you just project manager: So but that's for that's for you , industrial designer: Okay . project manager: 'cause it's user interface: Yeah , okay I'll d I'll take a look at it . user interface: Think we need to work  thirty minutes again ? marketing: Yeah , we have to care that it r  looks really new . marketing: 'Cause wha what I see the only difference i i i in fact is that we use a scroll-wheel on the outside . user interface: No , you have  It is industrial designer: Yeah , but i i it should be round in in shape . marketing: Some some kind of bling bling   can we have industrial designer: user interface: Where you can put a ve  we have If we do it like that we have below have we  a lot of room to put a nice logo . marketing:  and how many  fronts  fronts do we put on the market then ?  five or something ? project manager: Yeah , five . user interface: marketing: Or more or user interface: Maybe you can buy separate ones and  marketing: And    buy the product . industrial designer: No , tha that will be project manager: So y you can put the bottom of the remote control in recharger ? Is that is that a good good opportunity ? user interface: Yes . marketing: Yeah , we can b It c it could be just just a square , just a packet . industrial designer: But we have to make contacts on the on the remote control and the recharger as well . user interface: I think i marketing: user interface: Yeah okay , tho those are al already a bit cornered . industrial designer: Yeah , but we can we can do all kinds of  As long as it isn is in two D_ we can use all kind of round shapes . project manager: industrial designer: project manager: It's a bit annoying , isn't it ? marketing: Yeah . I know we can do a lot more , but marketing: Yeah , it project manager: industrial designer: Like in this kind of shape or marketing:  it's very annoying . project manager: So we have to make a decision , what kind of form it's gonna have t going to have . project manager: But why do we have to round it on the t bottom then ? Of Skip that one as well . user interface: and marketing: It's not not a lot of trends I  I found  project manager: Okay , so we have s still one minute left . So just marketing:  project manager: I think it's okay if you just keep it a bit square . Yeah , marketing: It The th th industrial designer: I d I don't know n something about ergonomic kind of fits-in-the-hand  stuff . It's only annoying if it if it's like that f formed like that , like f Whatever . Just you have a normal industrial designer: Yeah , but we're we're aiming at a young public . marketing: There is one There's just one overall important aspect is that we must make it fancy and it looks original , and I hope we can  make it look not like the iPod itself . But you're If you look at the way remote controls are now project manager: But i it is it is it is already fancy . user interface: And if you make it look like the iPod marketing: Yeah , they're all the same . So that's already a very big change project manager:  maybe maybe make the the  the wha what's it called  scroll wheel . Maybe we have to ask  to the the  to her if it has if it can work better than this . project manager: We just we just skip the the the voca or was it the the speech recognition . Yeah , do we s keep that ? Yeah , I think project manager: Or keep that ? It's okay . But you'd definitely need a industrial designer: S user interface: Well  project manager: advanced chip . marketing:  industrial designer: And we we have to build in a microphone and user interface: Well that's very easy . We already have  the beeping of the home station , industrial designer: Yeah , and I do I don't know anything about that . user interface: so industrial designer: I d I didn't receive any information on speech recognition , marketing: No . Becau project manager: Can we just put it speech recognition in it as well , marketing: Yeah . But project manager: okay ? user interface: So marketing: Ma user interface: shall we it open then ? project manager: Yeah . user interface: Oh yeah , I marketing: But we don't have any f information about the cost . marketing: We started with information about the cost was now th user interface: I just I just received the industrial designer: Yeah ,  I have I have some some information about the cost . marketing: And how much is the chip ? The the the industrial designer: I don't know how much , but user interface: Yeah , our division has developed a new speech recognition feature , the integrated programmable sample sensor simple speaker u unit . industrial designer: Just in inexpensive or user interface: This is a very small electronic unit , will give a standard answer after it recognise a question . user interface: Yeah  th that's just It's a marketing: Does it say does it say something back ? project manager: Okay , we have to stop it now . Yeah , it Well that's integrated in the chip , so if you use the speech recognition , that's in it . project manager: Okay , that's a r That's that's a advanced industrial designer: But i it's a separate chip . user interface: I dunno , but if we use speech recognition , that will be in it as well . industrial designer: Yeah , I don't know anything about this , marketing:  project manager: Yeah , we just decide not to put it in , industrial designer: but Nah . project manager: Okay , just user interface: And there's a chip in it that will project manager: We have to stop it now 