user interface: And then you can still use the the power button and the mute and the the joystick . What's the R_R_ d user interface: R_R_'s the l the the the the company  logo . industrial designer: project manager: So , we have marketing: That's on the rub rubber part . marketing: Do we project manager: We have marketing: Do we change the project manager: Sorry ? marketing: Do we change the the order ? Or are we going to  ev evaluate it first ? project manager: Finance is  Yeah it's No , first  Yes . Well , we   , I have  thinked a few evaluation  criterias ,  based on  our marketing strategy , on  the latest trends , on user preferences . project manager: What do you think ? marketing: Yeah , I think it's   , well technologically using , it's not  it doesn't contain many new features . What  not anoth  , marketing: industrial designer: not a lot of  a lot of  remote controls have . user interface:  marketing: Well , it's a statement which  I disagree with , because we  really aim  at at young market and I think the way it looked  c  totally in yellow , it's not  really aimed for all customers . user interface: Yeah , but it's it's project manager: So I think it's four . I think if we do this , as it's   c  it's really orientates on the design . industrial designer: Me too a two , because only the battery is not  techin  technologically high standard . So ,   did we  do that ? Well ,  if we go to  this fashion , I We still have caused  a lot of  buttons for the numbers . So , but can it get lost if it's such a thing ? user interface: Yeah , but  Yeah . marketing: If we looked at the latest trends for the  younger people , and they ate  fruit and vegetables , well it has a  a nice colour ,  well compared to food but we didn't  We did not paint any  fruit and vegetable on it for something like that . industrial designer: project manager: So industrial designer: marketing: project manager: Then we have plastic , wood , rubber . Scroll-wheel , integrated scroll-wheel push push-button , or L_C_D_ display . industrial designer: project manager: So , we have the L_C_D_ We have two scroll-wheels ? Or one ? industrial designer: One . project manager: So , then  then then then then then then Then industrial designer: We're not gonna make it . project manager: Oh , no , we industrial designer: I don't think it's a very special colour . project manager: No , it's  Sorry ? industrial designer: Yellow ?  , is it a special colour ? marketing: For a remote control . So industrial designer: And what if we use only one sort of   just only plastic or only rubber ? project manager: That's one Euro . If industrial designer: If we change the joyst  the joystick thing into a button up , button down , button right , button left . We industrial designer: And if you say it's just a r  normal colour it's a normal colour , wh project manager: Yellow rubber . industrial designer: Normal colour , and the the joystick away , and put the button up , button down , right , left . But if you lose the joystick , it's still  an advanced chip ? industrial designer: No . marketing: The advanced chip was for the L_C_D_ wasn't it ? user interface: Yeah . project manager: So , the advanced is for the L_C_D_ and the regular for the joystick . project manager: And what if we lose the L_C_D_ ? industrial designer: If we lose the L_C_D_ , then we have an  regular chip and no L_C_D_ . marketing: If  industrial designer: So , the T_V_s has to  have to be up-to-date . marketing: If we have the n no buttons If we have we have  not a joystick but buttons , we would have  , we have thirteen Euros ? project manager: yes . What's the normal colour ? user interface: industrial designer: Oh , well that's clear . project manager: Now it's industrial designer: marketing: still , he waited at the project manager: Very good . Well What do you think of it ?  marketing: industrial designer: About the project manager: About the project . I I espe I especially  liked the the means , the the SMARTboard and  Yeah , it  It brings up new ideas when you work with  with it . marketing: Yeah , I think you have to compare it to if you would have a normal  normal project without laptops  and without these devices . I think  Well , the laptops if you have them out front of you , you sometimes looking at that instead of the presentation . And maybe is then  the task of the the project manager to also  ask more to the people  less talking 