I'll again be the secretary and make minutes , take minutes ,  and it will be three presentations , just like the last meeting .  , before we begin it , I want to say I've I've put the minutes of the  second meeting in the shared folder , but they're still not  quite okay . It  it  still some technical difficulties so the the first part of the minutes are very hard to read , because there are two documents that  were layered over each other . project manager: But  , from now on I won't use my pen anymore , so will be p just ordinary keyboard . industrial designer: Okay , when we talk about  components design ,  it's really about the material and the and   really the stuff we build  the remote controls of . We have to choose th  these  wisely and it could affect   a kind of grow of in  in buying  the remote controls .  the properties of the case ,  it has to be solid  in hard material like  hard plastic  with soft rubber for  falling and and   yeah , it feels  good in your hand .   they're telling me that  when we build  a remote control of  of plastic or rubber , the  buttons have to be  rubber too . I when we use a rubbled a doubled curved case , we must use a rubber push-buttons to  the the rubber double-curved case is a is a t  three-dimensional  curve in the in the design , which is  necessary when we want to be trendy .  ,  the basic battery , which I thi prefer because of its  its non  non-depending of of of    here you have to have a hand  yeah , kinetic  energy . Also in  this one , like in the watches , but a remote control can lie on a table for a day , and then you push  a button and so you don't have to  walk with it all the all the time . marketing: project manager: industrial designer:   also the case material ,  I think that plastic is the is the best with rubber , because  wood or titanium would also be a bit weird .  , the base station is also off the shelf , all the materials and the components are  just available in  in our  factory .  , it's all  off the shelf and even the speaker and the wireless retriever are all  available in our company . Could be  something special to our  remote control , and it's possible , but it only cost a bit more , but maybe it can be  within the limits of twenty five Euros . industrial designer: I th I got an email with  some examples and it these were were the most trendiest one . user interface: industrial designer: You see  a covers , which can be project manager: What are those , t tooth  brushes , or so user interface: industrial designer: I don't know .  marketing: project manager: But it's actually kind of  user interface: I project manager: well , it resembles the design I had in mind for this proj industrial designer: Yes . industrial designer: Yes , maybe we can  bri  bring a couple of  couple of types of  project manager: And we can we can steal their ideas . industrial designer: Maybe we can bring a whole line  with  with a huge variety of  project manager: Well , it's a possibility , too . industrial designer: Like  maybe radios and  television also  in this in this in the same style , but project manager: industrial designer: Yes , because we have to  we have to we have to bring the logo and all the stuff  back into it . marketing: user interface: I was thinking about just  the basic functions and I got  project manager: Oh , we decided upon that in the last meeting . Didn't we ? user interface: Yeah , but but then wh I don't know when there are new user requirements . Well , tha I didn't receive any new requirements or somethi user interface: I ha I ha I have the I have project manager: Just user interface: nothing . user interface: I dunno if they're maybe a little bit more , but project manager: Well we maybe we can think of that later . project manager: these are the ones you already summed up in the user interface: Yeah , I I  well , I pointed them out here , just to make it a little bit easier .  , I was also looking for what you said , for I got an email   about  L_C_D_ in in in front of the remote control . I don't know if that's a good idea , or maybe it's a little bit too much for twelve and a half . I don't know what kind of information it would user interface: Yeah , I don't know . marketing: Then you project manager: user interface: a little  too A little bit marketing: and then you've got a flag s Very big R_C_ . user interface: It's it's just the base things we already discussed that the no V_C_R_ or that kind of marketing: No . And I   thinked of the button sizes and I'm not sure  if they have to be big or  just small industrial designer: But you're the expert . user interface: Well , I'm not a e I'm the expert for user-friendly , but not for trendiness . user interface: Maybe it marketing: Well , if you save  Perhaps  s tiny buttons aren't user-friendly , then we wouldn't im implement that of course . project manager: user interface: Well  industrial designer: marketing: user interface: okay , that's your point . marketing: user interface: Yeah , I've nothing to s industrial designer: project manager: Well , w when we only use basic functions , we have the possibility to make the buttons larger . user interface: I thought so , but maybe with the project manager: Well , I think we already agreed upon the fact that the the the skip buttons and the cha and the volume buttons , th th those two have yeah , they have to be large . project manager:  th th the the two two basic buttons , you know , the to skip channels and to  user interface: Large ? Yeah . project manager: I think yeah , I don't know why , but I think that is that's t trendy too , user interface: Most the most used  buttons . marketing: Those are probably the the th project manager: because that's the mo it it you know , it's  acc acc  accentu  , how do you say it ? It puts an extra accent on the the on the simplicity of our remotes to j to make these two most basic functions extra big , like t marketing: Yes .  I've done some investigation , and  well I  got some information from fashion watchers from Paris and  Milan . And  the third point there in this  order if of importance , the third point , is a high ease of use . And  , well , for the idea , I've put some trends  for the market of elderly people . user interface: marketing: The younger market likes  Well , the themes of of this year are  surprisingly fruits and vegetables and spongy material . industrial designer: user interface: industrial designer: marketing: I found this image , which is  Well , it symbolises the idea of fruits and vegetables . But with a little bit of fancy project manager: Well maybe c then we have to do something with Sponge Bob then . I got some ideas user interface: marketing:  well , yeah , pictures isn't really good word , but  industrial designer: marketing: some symbols of fruits or vegetables maybe . marketing: And  , the docking st industrial designer: marketing:  I think the spongy material is is very irritating for the  remote control itself . But to industrial designer: marketing: Yeah , the To implement some spongy thing , maybe we can do it in the in the docking station . And  , we could bring one line with a dark colour  to   p  yeah industrial designer: marketing:   v how do you say ? project manager: For diversity or something .  marketing: Yeah , also a bit for elderly people who are a little bit crazy and want maybe want a little younger design but still the dark colour . user interface: Well , how  industrial designer: marketing:  it it it reaches a different market  , but it it it doesn't cost really much effort to b to  bring  like a black R_C_ on the market or whatever . user interface: But how do we use  fruits and vegetables in Christ's sake with remote control ? industrial designer: project manager: No , but I I I think that  our design already resembles so a piece of fruit . marketing: Yeah , there's there's always a user interface: make it a banana ? project manager: It's like a pear or something .  I think this part of the R_C_  well the upper the upper part or whatever is  is not not used with buttons , I guess . project manager: No , I don't think you have to do it like industrial designer: user interface: marketing: So you you can put some fruity things project manager: Yeah , but it that doesn't have to remind you , you know , like explicitly of s our f of a of a specific piece of fruit , but just , you know , like the the the the round curves . project manager: And so y I I think this y it already sem resembles  something like a pear to me or something . marketing: Especially i user interface: Yeah , but th yeah , but that marketing: Yeah , yeah . project manager: You do get the idea , eh ? The fruity kind of round user interface: Yeah   project manager: 'Kay . marketing: A and we could use one of these for the  w what is it ? project manager: Yeah ,  yeah , I don't know . user interface: But d don't we need a creative artist or something like that to m make it to feel like a a a a vegetable or fruit ? industrial designer: project manager: Yeah , yeah . marketing: And  , maybe , yeah , a b a banana is  is n not easy for a remote control , but m yeah . project manager: No , but I think it's it's already what we were were up to . project manager: it's it doesn't have to resemble  what I already said , a specific piece of fruit , but just , you know , like a fruity thing going on . user interface: marketing: B but that's great , and and and what I was project manager: And  , but I do like the marketing: what what I was saying , the catchy colours project manager: yeah , I do like  the f  to the idea of making a a y  , a catchy colour design and a d because I do I think a dark colour would be nice too . user interface: But , we we have to  There have to be the the the the firm colours , our own  colours has to be in it . Pictures was a was a bad word , but project manager: Okay , but what are the This is yellow . user interface: A yellow do marketing: If this is our docking station , we can make our logo over here . project manager: Yeah , on  n  on the bottom of the remote you can do marketing: Well , the button button over here or whatever , user interface: Okay , yeah . project manager: Okay , you can you open the conceptual design presentation ? marketing: Conceptual design , yes . project manager: but I don't think it's there  , yeah  , do we want to  use an L_C_D_ display , for example ? marketing: Well , it's nice , of course . industrial designer: Maybe maybe we can make a T_V_ guide on it , for the channel you're on . marketing:  project manager: Yeah , but it's so marketing: Yeah , but it should be li like this big , and I don't think industrial designer: No , no , only the T_V_ channel with the with  with  four programmes . marketing: Yes sure , but it it has to to show an entire title of a programme or at least a q a quite quite large part of it and then you get a very large L_C_D_ screen , because industrial designer: Yes , it can On your No , on your mobile phone you can y you can read text also . project manager: And it's also not I don't th even think it it looks s like sexy or something , user interface: Well well what would you display on it then ? project manager: it's industrial designer: programme  information or or or or g or a guide marketing: Programme information . user interface: But is it isn't that a already on T_V_ , a lot of new T_V_s ? marketing: But industrial designer: on t on teletext , yes . marketing: Well a lot a lot of T_V_s indeed show  when you  zap to a industrial designer: But project manager: But you're already watching the T_V_ , you're not gonna watch your remote control . marketing: But then we also  w need to bring out a line of T_V_s which we were planning to , user interface: Yeah , project manager: user interface: and we also have to yeah . Because the T_V_ has to send information back to the R_C_ , and I don't know if that's possible . project manager: marketing: Yes , yes , o of course it's possible , user interface: marketing: but you gotta  implement it in the T_V_s , and I don't think everyone's gonna buy a Real Reaction T_V_ within a month after the release of our  remote control . industrial designer: project manager: I really understand you want to make your job more exciting by putting an L_C_D_ in it , user interface: And I also industrial designer: user interface: marketing: project manager: but I I really don't think it's a good n goo because it also doesn't stroke with we wanted  c When we talk about the materials ,  it's a good idea to use these plastic materials with soft rubber stuff on it . It was our idea , you know , to give it a more sturdy look and that you ca like you can throw with it . project manager: But I don't think a L_C_D_ display fits in that image . marketing: That's true , that's true , it breaks f yeah , it it it's not very solid , it's  frag fragile . You could make it , but it's just it it doesn't I don't think it it's coherent with the design we're after . user interface: industrial designer: project manager: If we wanna user interface: Yeah , I dunno . industrial designer: project manager: And I've read somewhere that I've got some kind of veto veto  rights . project manager: But did we skip the Yeah , you could do marketing: project manager: m but what what i so what i but do you think we should user interface: Yeah , I don't know .  ,  I i if it's it's a simple p project manager: We're not even sure what what information we want to display on it . So user interface: No , that that's right , industrial designer: No   user interface: and  I also have to think about new functions , maybe buttons or something like that to control it . Kind of L_C_D_ or something or industrial designer: Y yes , you can use  buttons   w that are already  on the remote control for double functions . user interface: But how does it display then ? W when I go to the second channel , what what does it show me ? industrial designer: then you push a button . user interface: About that programme ? industrial designer: But but  yeah , what he said was right , about the televisions , they have to be  customised to the project manager: Nah , that's not gonna work . industrial designer: But maybe in future it will be a giant hit , and when you are the first marketing: No . industrial designer: you have the biggest  project manager: Do you know th like the the bigger rem  universal remotes , they have d L_C_D_ displays , user interface: Yeah . industrial designer: Yes , you can put  a little L_C_D_ display on it with  with lots of information . project manager: But it just it j it doesn't doesn't match with the our whole basic concept . But whe but when you put a a a transparent  plastic   screen on top of it , it i it isn't vulnerable . That's maybe not the most important , industrial designer: You can throw with it and project manager: but it's just user interface: Is it fashion ? project manager: I don't think so . industrial designer: When when you put  maybe a colour L_C_D_ t  screen on it , it's very special and very trendy to have  a remote control from user interface: I don't know . project manager: Yeah , well do you ha do you have to You haven't looked after the trendiness of L_C_D_ displays , have you ? marketing: No . industrial designer: user interface: Because our our motto is we put fashion marketing: Well , I think it's  I think it's pretty trendy , to be honest ,  but  I don't know if if if well , I'm coming back to the costs again , but I think  we gotta build a b pretty cheap design to to stay within our limits . project manager: Yeah , but we're gonna if it marketing: did it say a price also  for for  monogramme  L_C_D_ or  coloured L_C_D_ ? user interface: Yeah , if you want to be trendy you have to be coloured . Coloured marketing: Yeah really , user interface: If you have black and white or something , or grey , that's marketing: if y if you c i project manager: Then  then you better don't yeah , d marketing: I in in two thousand and four you can't  put something on the market which is a monogramme . industrial designer: No , but it doesn't sa say anything about a colour or But , I alf I also got a possibility to put  a scroll button on it . But project manager:   I really don't feel the whole idea of an L_C_D_ display . I don't know how well how to with you guys , but I don't really feel it . We already we're  user interface: It's too much  maybe  with with the L_C_D_ and the docking station and project manager: Yeah , we already have the the th th th base station gadgets , marketing: Yeah . project manager: and want and it   , do it has to be a simple design , which sturdy , which soft industrial designer: Yes , but o on the marketing: W we've we've gotta find a balance , of course . project manager: I don't think I j  , and really , I don't see how the the L_C_D_ display is gonna add anything , you know , on a design level . industrial designer: No , when y project manager: Y we want to it's simplicity , w you have two big buttons and you can do whatever you want with these two buttons , so you don't need an L_C_D_ . industrial designer: Yes , but but when you want to have something special project manager: Yeah , but we already have the docking station , which is industrial designer: Yes , but you had a picture of it from another company . industrial designer: project manager: but no , but it that's industrial designer: project manager: that's our that's our killer feature . marketing: Is that so ? Was it it wasn't just a prototype ? user interface: Well  I  industrial designer: Yes , he have a picture of it . project manager: but re we really have to cut this off , user interface: project manager: I re I know you I I I I I get the idea you really like it , you know , the the L_C_D_ thing , but I I think it's it's not a good idea , and we have already mentioned all the arguments . I don't  , do you guys agre How do you guys think ? I d user interface: No , it's too much . project manager: I'm sorry , maybe you can do something if we are at your own place , or make it make it make it happen in your basement or something .  industrial designer: Yes , maybe a bit of a cushion is project manager: Yeah yeah yeah , p Exactly . This is what it w Yeah , but it it was already what we're  we're after , you know , to give it  , you know , the soft touch in your hands marketing: Yeah , for the spongy  feel . industrial designer: Maybe it marketing: industrial designer: but then we have to look that it  w  will not  be too childish to see . And that's why I like the dark t col dark colour bit , you know , because it may be the design  , it's  maybe it is a bit of the marketing: Yeah . project manager: it's a bit nineties maybe , what we're what we're up to rat fun to this point . project manager: Yeah , that's that's true , but but it has to be a little big solid . user interface: But can we ge   project manager: It mustn't be too , n you know , th too overwhelming , then when you put it on your just user interface: Can we combine it or something ?  with  yellow and black ? project manager: Yeah . marketing: Well , we can as as I industrial designer: But that's not really fruity . project manager: But marketing: But , i project manager: Okay , but what  , what are other tef technical things we have to discuss ? user interface: project manager: industrial designer:  fronts of the We can have  different   fronts of the project manager: Should we do that ? industrial designer: telephone . That's project manager: The materials you  mentioned in your your personal preferences were all were quite okay . project manager: O o only only the last point your user interface: And tita  titanium , is  is is it a no ? industrial designer: Yes , project manager: no titanium's not not out of question , I guess . industrial designer: But also w Yes , b bu but when we use s soft project manager: But is it possible to use both the the plastic and so  soft things and t p titanium , as well ? industrial designer:  marketing: Sure . It will  make a huge noise or break other stuff project manager: It will it will break other stuff w when it's plastic , as well . industrial designer: But also on the colours , the young project manager: Okay , think of the possibilities and make it in completely titanium . Well would it be more trendy ? More chic ? marketing: Yeah , I think it I think it does . industrial designer: Yes , but a titanium remote control , when you're  watching T_V_  or your hands are a little bit sweaty , and the user interface: In trendy things . marketing: Yeah , o On the other hand , if you want to make fruit fruity stuff with  user interface: Yeah . project manager: Yeah , but I I really like the idea of the the the plastic and the big kind of thing . project manager: But the question is i then it's , you know , is is it fits in our s philosophy to make it  sturdy and simple and  , know , like  user interface: Yeah . Define project manager: When you make it titanium , it becomes more like some kind of gadget you actually don't need . And when it's big and plastic , it's like some fun stuff you can always have around . user interface: Isn't that titanium with a little bit of rubber ? industrial designer: Yes , it's w but it is  plastic . industrial designer: Yes , w we can do that on the on the marketing: What ? user interface: Yeah , he is . 'Kay ,  that that's very  with rubber , so it's very marketing: Oh , yeah . industrial designer: this is  just a project manager: Oh , maybe th maybe this is an marketing: Yeah , I th I think that's difficult , because  that's different material , and then you gotta have like    two material lines of of of industrial designer: No , we c we can make it from the same kind of plastic . marketing: Yeah , if it's just a colour  which you  which you change then , I guess it's it's nice to have one of these . project manager: No , I do like the idea of maybe a t titanium kind type of body w and then with s plastic colouration around it . industrial designer:  marketing:  project manager: You know , like the the soft stuff , marketing: Yeah .  , I I didn't got it project manager: But you can't make the plastic give  the ti titanium look . But if you want to la  yeah , last longer than two weeks or something like that , you can maybe marketing: Yeah . project manager: And  and marketing: project manager: maybe we sh should we t I don't know if we should talk about  , how how much time have we got left ? industrial designer: in a lot of other  user interface: I don't know . user interface: What time does industrial designer: in a lot of other product  categories like  even in b in bags industry .  , they began with  t typical  leather bags , but then they became stylish , with all all si all sort of colours , and w kind of fon of  of fronts , like we can use on the telephone and it marketing: Yeah . industrial designer: Like Eastpack  began a revolution with it with all this  kind of bags and and colours and and project manager: You putting in different colours . industrial designer: They have  also  a kind of    roses on it , a and  marketing:  yeah , yeah . But , let's think about the bas industrial designer: Then we can always  use the same design for a greater resemblance , but with new  with new colours , new marketing: Yes . project manager: But wha th our basic idea y  , you gonna we're probably gonna have like two type of materials , like the d d b the plastic  enclosure and then the the pads that surround it . But ,  do w gonna gonna are we going to give it a two-tone colour look , like the the plastic mould is in in one colour and the s the cushion pads around it are in another colour ? Is that the idea ? Is that a good idea ? marketing: How do you mean ? Th th the  base in a in another project manager: How many colours are we how many colours are we gonna we're   f  f user interface: The rubber . project manager: Like two-tone colour ? T industrial designer: There there are three  components three components type . industrial designer: You have the buttons , the the case  itself , and the rubber and th marketing: How the buttons yeah . project manager: I think maybe the case itself should be in one colour and then the rubber of the buttons , and the cushions as well should be in another colour . user interface: Or you just make  one colour ,  maybe with a a z a kind of like a big wave or something like  marketing: Yeah . project manager: Well , yeah , it's user interface: Not more than two colours I think . industrial designer: Yeah , or or when you use the buttons as black , it you can use two colours as well  marketing: Yes , definitely . user interface: The funct yeah , I was I was thinking about th the st do we still want a joystick idea . user interface: The volume , teletext and project manager: And maybe want to access a a menu or something . marketing: Yeah , but that's that's I was thinking that's gotta be on the television . user interface: Yeah yeah yeah yeah , b project manager: That's just i the only button only user interface: Yeah , but wha what kind of menu ? project manager: You know , I user interface: Is  isn't that different from every television ? project manager: No , I think most T_V_s have an  a menu nowadays to access the   screen settings . Yeah , if it's c if Yeah , I think it's okay to to add a menu button for  user interface: project manager: But that that covers all the all the other settings . marketing: and if the T_V_ doesn't have a menu , then industrial designer: But then you have to put  up and down and  left and right marketing: Yeah . project manager: No , you can use the marketing: Yeah , you can put that on the two eight four and six or whatever . project manager: Th in that way we have like only the numbers , the power button , skip and volume , and then   ten  rem marketing: yeah . So project manager: Something important about a s  , no ,  which sh  should remind us of the remote itself , I guess . marketing: Are we gonna do something with the  spongy thing there ? project manager: Just use I think the spongy thing already  comes forward in the in the in the cushions , pads and things on the s  side . project manager: And we will make it spongy and and  and  well , the fruity thing is just the shape should be fru i did I think this is kind of fruity , you know . Just round shapes with  user interface: marketing: Yeah , it's kinda fruity , and with th with catchy colours   w project manager: Yeah , but we're gonna have to we really have to think I think colours is very important , because it has to be flashy , but and but it d it doesn't have to be annoying , that when you  , know , some things is just over the top , and when you have it on your table for more than two weeks , you it just gets annoying , because it's so big and flashy . project manager: it has to be some level of subtlety , but we have to still have to think of how we manage to  to get to that . project manager: But we I think also we just so we have to do something with colour but also , I I think we have to keep the dark colour thing in mind . project manager: too much colour maybe m  user interface: Too much colour , i it  when you got it in a living room , it's too much maybe project manager: But our des design experts will  work that out . It has to be project manager: Okay , well I think the meeting will be over within a minute . Well , you will read the minutes  in the you can find them in the user interface: Oh , okay , yeah . You see a kinda prototype you can a little bit more  industrial designer: I will make one in the next  twenty minutes 